## ✔️ attr 
 ---<br/>title: attr()<br/>slug: Web/CSS/attr<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Function<br/>  - Function<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Web<br/>  - attr<br/>browser-compat: css.types.attr<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>> **Note:** The `attr()` function can be used with any CSS property, but support for properties other than {{CSSxRef(content)}} is experimental, and support for the type-or-unit parameter is sparse.<br/><br/>The **`attr()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) is used to retrieve the value of an attribute of the selected element and use it in the stylesheet. It can also be used on [pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements), in which case the value of the attribute on the pseudo-element's originating element is returned.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Simple usage */<br/>attr(data-count);<br/>attr(title);<br/><br/>/* With type */<br/>attr(src url);<br/>attr(data-count number);<br/>attr(data-width px);<br/><br/>/* With fallback */<br/>attr(data-count number, 0);<br/>attr(src url, );<br/>attr(data-width px, inherit);<br/>attr(data-something, default);<br/>```<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `attribute-name`<br/>  - : The name of an attribute on the HTML element referenced in the CSS.<br/>- `<type-or-unit>` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>  - : A keyword representing either the type of the attribute's value, or its unit, as in HTML some attributes have implicit units. If the use of `<type-or-unit>` as a value for the given attribute is invalid, the `attr()` expression will be invalid too. If omitted, it defaults to `string`. The list of valid values are:<br/><br/>    - `string`<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is treated as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;string&gt;)}}. It is NOT reparsed, and in particular the characters are used as-is instead of CSS escapes being turned into different characters.<br/><br/>        Default value: an empty string.<br/><br/>    - `color` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a hash (3- or 6-value hash) or a keyword. It must be a valid CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;string&gt;)}} value. Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `currentcolor`.<br/><br/>    - `url` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a string that is used inside a CSS `url()` function.<br/>        Relative URL are resolved relatively to the original document, not relatively to the style sheet.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: the URL `about:invalid` that points to a non-existent document with a generic error condition.<br/><br/>    - `integer` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;integer&gt;)}}. If it is not valid, that is not an integer or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0`, or, if `0` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `number` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}}. If it is not valid, that is not a number or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0`, or, if `0` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `length` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;length&gt;)}} dimension, that is including the unit (e.g. `12.5em`). If it is not valid, that is not a length or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        If the given unit is a relative length, `attr()` computes it to an absolute length.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0`, or, if `0` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `em`, `ex`, `px`, `rem`, `vw`, `vh`, `vmin`, `vmax`, `mm`, `cm`, `in`, `pt`, or `pc` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}}, that is without the unit (e.g. `12.5`), and interpreted as a {{CSSxRef(&lt;length&gt;)}} with the specified unit. If it is not valid, that is not a number or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        If the given unit is a relative length, `attr()` computes it to an absolute length.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0`, or, if `0` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `angle` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;angle&gt;)}} dimension, that is including the unit (e.g. `30.5deg`). If it is not valid, that is not an angle or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0deg`, or, if `0deg` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `deg`, `grad`, `rad` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}}, that is without the unit (e.g. `12.5`), and interpreted as an {{CSSxRef(&lt;angle&gt;)}} with the specified unit. If it is not valid, that is not a number or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0deg`, or, if `0deg` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `time` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;time&gt;)}} dimension, that is including the unit (e.g. `30.5ms`). If it is not valid, that is not a time or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0s`, or, if `0s` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `s`, `ms` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}}, that is without the unit (e.g. `12.5`), and interpreted as an{{CSSxRef(&lt;time&gt;)}} with the specified unit. If it is not valid, that is not a number or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0s`, or, if `0s` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `frequency` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;frequency&gt;)}} dimension, that is including the unit (e.g. `30.5kHz`). If it is not valid, that is not a frequency or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0Hz`, or, if `0Hz` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `Hz`, `kHz` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}}, that is without the unit (e.g. `12.5`), and interpreted as a {{CSSxRef(&lt;frequency&gt;)}} with the specified unit. If it is not valid, that is not a number or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0Hz`, or, if `0Hz` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>    - `%` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>      - : The attribute value is parsed as a CSS {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}}, that is without the unit (e.g. `12.5`), and interpreted as a {{CSSxRef(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}. If it is not valid, that is not a number or out of the range accepted by the CSS property, the default value is used.<br/>        If the given value is used as a length, `attr()` computes it to an absolute length.<br/>        Leading and trailing spaces are stripped.<br/><br/>        Default value: `0%`, or, if `0%` is not a valid value for the property, the property's minimum value.<br/><br/>- `<fallback>` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>  - : The value to be used if the associated attribute is missing or contains an invalid value. If not set, CSS will use the default value defined for each `<type-or-unit>`.<br/><br/>### Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{CSSSyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### content property<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p data-foo=hello>world</p><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>[data-foo]::before {<br/>  content: attr(data-foo)  ;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(content_property, 100%, 50)}}<br/><br/>### color value<br/><br/>{{SeeCompatTable}}<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=background data-background=lime>background expected to be red if your browser does not support advanced usage of attr()</div><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css hidden<br/>.background {<br/>  height: 100vh;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>```css<br/>.background {<br/>  background-color: red;<br/>}<br/><br/>.background[data-background] {<br/>  background-color: attr(data-background color, red);<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(color_value, 100%, 50)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Attribute selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Attribute_selectors)<br/>- [HTML `data-*` attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/data-*)<br/>- [SVG `data-*` attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/data-*)<br/>