## ✔️ border-spacing 
 ---<br/>title: border-spacing<br/>slug: Web/CSS/border-spacing<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Tables<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.border-spacing<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`border-spacing`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the distance between the borders of adjacent cells in a {{htmlelement(table)}}. This property applies only when {{cssxref(border-collapse)}} is `separate`.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/border-spacing.html)}}<br/><br/>The `border-spacing` value is also used along the outside edge of the table, where the distance between the table's border and the cells in the first/last column or row is the sum of the relevant (horizontal or vertical) `border-spacing` and the relevant (top, right, bottom, or left) {{cssxref(padding)}} on the table.<br/><br/>> **Note:** The `border-spacing` property is equivalent to the deprecated `cellspacing` `<table>` attribute, except that it has an optional second value that can be used to set different horizontal and vertical spacing.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* <length> */<br/>border-spacing: 2px;<br/><br/>/* horizontal <length> | vertical <length> */<br/>border-spacing: 1cm 2em;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>border-spacing: inherit;<br/>border-spacing: initial;<br/>border-spacing: revert;<br/>border-spacing: revert-layer;<br/>border-spacing: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `border-spacing` property may be specified as either one or two values.<br/><br/>- When **one** `<length>` value is specified, it defines both the horizontal and vertical spacings between cells.<br/>- When **two** `<length>` values are specified, the first value defines the horizontal spacing between cells (i.e., the space between cells in adjacent _columns_), and the second value defines the vertical spacing between cells (i.e., the space between cells in adjacent _rows_).<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}}<br/>  - : The size of the spacing as a fixed value.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Spacing and padding table cells<br/><br/>This example applies a spacing of `.5em` vertically and `1em` horizontally between a table's cells. Note how, along its outside edges, the table's `padding` values are added to its `border-spacing` values.<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><table><br/>  <tr><br/>    <td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><br/>  </tr><br/>  <tr><br/>    <td>4</td><td>5</td><td>6</td><br/>  </tr><br/>  <tr><br/>    <td>7</td><td>8</td><td>9</td><br/>  </tr><br/></table><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>table {<br/>  border-spacing: 1em .5em;<br/>  padding: 0 2em 1em 0;<br/>  border: 1px solid orange;<br/>}<br/><br/>td {<br/>  width: 1.5em;<br/>  height: 1.5em;<br/>  background: #d2d2d2;<br/>  text-align: center;<br/>  vertical-align: middle;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{ EmbedLiveSample('Spacing_and_padding_table_cells', 400, 200) }}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(border-collapse)}}, {{cssxref(border-style)}}<br/>- The `border-spacing` property alters the appearance of the {{htmlelement(table)}} HTML element.<br/>