## ✔️ border 
 ---<br/>title: border<br/>slug: Web/CSS/border<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Borders<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Shorthand property<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-shorthand-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.border<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef(CSS Borders)}}<br/><br/>The **`border`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets an element's border. It sets the values of {{Cssxref(border-width)}}, {{Cssxref(border-style)}}, and {{Cssxref(border-color)}}.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/border.html)}}<br/><br/>## Constituent properties<br/><br/>This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:<br/><br/>- [`border-color`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-color)<br/>- [`border-style`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-style)<br/>- [`border-width`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-width)<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* style */<br/>border: solid;<br/><br/>/* width | style */<br/>border: 2px dotted;<br/><br/>/* style | color */<br/>border: outset #f33;<br/><br/>/* width | style | color */<br/>border: medium dashed green;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>border: inherit;<br/>border: initial;<br/>border: revert;<br/>border: revert-layer;<br/>border: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `border` property may be specified using one, two, or three of the values listed below. The order of the values does not matter.<br/><br/>> **Note:** The border will be invisible if its style is not defined. This is because the style defaults to `none`.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `<line-width>`<br/>  - : Sets the thickness of the border. Defaults to `medium` if absent. See {{Cssxref(border-width)}}.<br/>- `<line-style>`<br/>  - : Sets the style of the border. Defaults to `none` if absent. See {{Cssxref(border-style)}}.<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;color&gt;)}}<br/>  - : Sets the color of the border. Defaults to `currentcolor` if absent. See {{Cssxref(border-color)}}.<br/><br/>## Description<br/><br/>As with all shorthand properties, any omitted sub-values will be set to their [initial value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/initial_value). Importantly, `border` cannot be used to specify a custom value for {{cssxref(border-image)}}, but instead sets it to its initial value, i.e., `none`.<br/><br/>The `border` shorthand is especially useful when you want all four borders to be the same. To make them different from each other, however, you can use the longhand {{Cssxref(border-width)}}, {{Cssxref(border-style)}}, and {{Cssxref(border-color)}} properties, which accept different values for each side. Alternatively, you can target one border at a time with the physical (e.g., {{Cssxref(border-top)}} ) and logical (e.g., {{Cssxref(border-block-start)}}) border properties.<br/><br/>### Borders vs. outlines<br/><br/>Borders and [outlines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/outline) are very similar. However, outlines differ from borders in the following ways:<br/><br/>- Outlines never take up space, as they are drawn outside of an element's content.<br/>- According to the spec, outlines don't have to be rectangular, although they usually are.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting a pink outset border<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div>I have a border, an outline, and a box shadow! Amazing, isn't it?</div><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>div {<br/>  border: 0.5rem outset pink;<br/>  outline: 0.5rem solid khaki;<br/>  box-shadow: 0 0 0 2rem skyblue;<br/>  border-radius: 12px;<br/>  font: bold 1rem sans-serif;<br/>  margin: 2rem;<br/>  padding: 1rem;<br/>  outline-offset: 0.5rem;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Setting_a_pink_outset_border')}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{Cssxref(border-width)}}<br/>- {{Cssxref(border-style)}}<br/>- {{Cssxref(border-color)}}<br/>- [Backgrounds and borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders)<br/>- [Learn CSS: Backgrounds and borders](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Backgrounds_and_borders)<br/>