## ✔️ bottom 
 ---<br/>title: bottom<br/>slug: Web/CSS/bottom<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Positioning<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.bottom<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`bottom`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property participates in setting the vertical position of a [positioned element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position). It has no effect on non-positioned elements.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/bottom.html)}}<br/><br/>The effect of `bottom` depends on how the element is positioned (i.e., the value of the {{cssxref(position)}} property):<br/><br/>- When `position` is set to `absolute` or `fixed`, the `bottom` property specifies the distance between the element's bottom edge and the bottom edge of its containing block.<br/>- When `position` is set to `relative`, the `bottom` property specifies the distance the element's bottom edge is moved above its normal position.<br/>- When `position` is set to `sticky`, the `bottom` property is used to compute the sticky-constraint rectangle.<br/>- When `position` is set to `static`, the `bottom` property has _no effect_.<br/><br/>When both {{cssxref(top)}} and `bottom` are specified, `position` is set to `absolute` or `fixed`, _and_ {{cssxref(height)}} is unspecified (either `auto` or `100%`) both the `top` and `bottom` distances are respected. In all other situations, if {{cssxref(height)}} is constrained in any way or `position` is set to `relative`, the `top` property takes precedence and the `bottom` property is ignored.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* <length> values */<br/>bottom: 3px;<br/>bottom: 2.4em;<br/><br/>/* <percentage>s of the height of the containing block */<br/>bottom: 10%;<br/><br/>/* Keyword value */<br/>bottom: auto;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>bottom: inherit;<br/>bottom: initial;<br/>bottom: revert;<br/>bottom: revert-layer;<br/>bottom: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}}<br/><br/>  - : A negative, null, or positive {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}} that represents:<br/><br/>    - for _absolutely positioned elements_, the distance to the bottom edge of the containing block.<br/>    - for _relatively positioned elements_, the distance that the element is moved above its normal position.<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}<br/>  - : A {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}} of the containing block's height.<br/>- `auto`<br/><br/>  - : Specifies that:<br/><br/>    - for _absolutely positioned elements_, the position of the element is based on the {{Cssxref(top)}} property, while `height: auto` is treated as a height based on the content; or if `top` is also `auto`, the element is positioned where it should vertically be positioned if it were a static element.<br/>    - for _relatively positioned elements_, the distance of the element from its normal position is based on the {{Cssxref(top)}} property; or if `top` is also `auto`, the element is not moved vertically at all.<br/><br/>- `inherit`<br/>  - : Specifies that the value is the same as the computed value from its parent element (which might not be its containing block). This computed value is then handled as if it were a {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}, or the `auto` keyword.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Absolute and fixed positioning<br/><br/>This example demonstrates the difference in behavior of the `bottom` property, when {{cssxref(position)}} is `absolute` versus `fixed`.<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p>This<br>is<br>some<br>tall,<br>tall,<br>tall,<br>tall,<br>tall<br>content.</p><br/><div class=fixed><p>Fixed</p></div><br/><div class=absolute><p>Absolute</p></div><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>p {<br/>  font-size: 30px;<br/>  line-height: 2em;<br/>}<br/><br/>div {<br/>  width: 48%;<br/>  text-align: center;<br/>  background: rgba(55,55,55,.2);<br/>  border: 1px solid blue;<br/>}<br/><br/>.absolute {<br/>  position: absolute;<br/>  bottom: 0;<br/>  left: 0;<br/>}<br/><br/>.fixed {<br/>  position: fixed;<br/>  bottom: 0;<br/>  right: 0;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Absolute_and_fixed_positioning','500','250')}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(inset)}}, the shorthand for all related properties: {{cssxref(top)}}, {{cssxref(bottom)}}, {{cssxref(left)}}, and {{cssxref(right)}}<br/>- The mapped logical properties: {{cssxref(inset-block-start)}}, {{cssxref(inset-block-end)}}, {{cssxref(inset-inline-start)}}, and {{cssxref(inset-inline-end)}} and the shorthands {{cssxref(inset-block)}} and {{cssxref(inset-inline)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(position)}}<br/>