## ✔️ box-direction 
 ---<br/>title: box-direction<br/>slug: Web/CSS/box-direction<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Non-standard<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.box-direction<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}{{Non-standard_header}}<br/><br/>> **Warning:** This is a property of the original CSS Flexible Box Layout Module draft, and has been replaced by a newer standard. The `-moz-box-direction` will only be used for XUL while the previous standard `box-direction` has been replaced by `flex-direction`. See [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Flexbox) for information about the current standard.<br/><br/>The **`box-direction`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies whether a box lays out its contents normally (from the top or left edge), or in reverse (from the bottom or right edge).<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>box-direction: normal;<br/>box-direction: reverse;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>box-direction: inherit;<br/>box-direction: initial;<br/>box-direction: revert;<br/>box-direction: revert-layer;<br/>box-direction: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The `box-direction` property is specified as one of the keyword values listed below.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : The box lays out its contents from the start (the left or top edge).<br/>- `reverse`<br/>  - : The box lays out its contents from the end (the right or bottom edge).<br/><br/>## Notes<br/><br/>The edge of the box designated the _start_ for layout purposes depends on the box's orientation:<br/><br/>- For horizontal elements, the _start_ is the top edge.<br/>- For vertical elements, the _start_ is the left edge.<br/><br/>The edge opposite to the start is designated the _end_.<br/><br/>If the direction is set using the element's `dir` attribute, then the style is ignored.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting box direction<br/><br/>```css<br/>.example {<br/>  /* bottom-to-top layout */<br/>  -moz-box-direction: reverse;      /* Mozilla */<br/>  -webkit-box-direction: reverse;   /* WebKit */<br/>  box-direction: reverse;           /* As specified */<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>Not part of any standard.<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(box-orient)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(box-pack)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(box-align)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(flex-direction)}}<br/>