## ✔️ calc 
 ---<br/>title: calc()<br/>slug: Web/CSS/calc<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Function<br/>  - Calculate<br/>  - Compute<br/>  - Function<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Web<br/>  - calc<br/>browser-compat: css.types.calc<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`calc()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) lets you perform calculations when specifying CSS property values. It can be used anywhere a {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;frequency&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;angle&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;time&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;number&gt;)}}, or {{cssxref(&lt;integer&gt;)}} is allowed.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/function-calc.html)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* property: calc(expression) */<br/>width: calc(100% - 80px);<br/>```<br/><br/>The `calc()` function takes a single expression as its parameter, with the expression's result used as the value. The expression can be any simple expression combining the following operators, using standard [operator precedence rules](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Math#operator_precedence):<br/><br/>- `+`<br/>  - : Addition.<br/>- `-`<br/>  - : Subtraction.<br/>- `*`<br/>  - : Multiplication. At least one of the arguments must be a {{cssxref(&lt;number&gt;)}}.<br/>- `/`<br/>  - : Division. The right-hand side must be a {{cssxref(&lt;number&gt;)}}.<br/><br/>The operands in the expression may be any {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}} syntax value. You can use different units for each value in your expression, if you wish. You may also use parentheses to establish computation order when needed.<br/><br/>### Notes<br/><br/>- The `+` and `-` operators **must be surrounded by {{Glossary(whitespace)}}**. For instance, `calc(50% -8px)` will be parsed as a percentage followed by a negative length — an invalid expression — while `calc(50% - 8px)` is a percentage followed by a subtraction operator and a length. Likewise, `calc(8px + -50%)` is treated as a length followed by an addition operator and a negative percentage.<br/>- The `*` and `/` operators do not require whitespace, but adding it for consistency is both allowed and recommended.<br/>- Division by zero results in an error being generated by the HTML parser.<br/>- Math expressions involving percentages for widths and heights on table columns, table column groups, table rows, table row groups, and table cells in both auto and fixed layout tables _may_ be treated as if `auto` had been specified.<br/>- It is permitted to nest `calc()` functions, in which case the inner ones are treated as simple parentheses.<br/>- For lengths, you can't use `0` to mean `0px` (or another length unit); instead, you must use the version with the unit: `margin-top: calc(0px + 20px);` is valid, while `margin-top: calc(0 + 20px);` is invalid.<br/><br/>### Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Accessibility concerns<br/><br/>When `calc()` is used for controlling text size, be sure that one of the values includes a [relative length unit](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length#relative_length_units), for example:<br/><br/>```css<br/>h1 {<br/>  font-size: calc(1.5rem + 3vw);<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>This ensures that text size will scale if the page is zoomed.<br/><br/>- [MDN Understanding WCAG, Guideline 1.4 explanations](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG/Perceivable#guideline_1.4_make_it_easier_for_users_to_see_and_hear_content_including_separating_foreground_from_background)<br/>- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4 | W3C Understanding WCAG 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/visual-audio-contrast-scale.html)<br/><br/>## Usage with integers<br/><br/>When **`calc()`** is used where an {{cssxref(&lt;integer&gt;)}} is expected, the value will be rounded to the nearest integer. For example:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.modal {<br/>  z-index: calc(3 / 2);<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>This will give `.modal` a final `z-index` value of 2.<br/><br/>> **Note:** The Chrome browser currently won't accept some values returned by **`calc()`** when an integer is expected.<br/>> This includes any division, even if it results in an integer. ie. `z-index: calc(4 / 2);` will not be accepted.<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Positioning an object on screen with a margin<br/><br/>`calc()` makes it easy to position an object with a set margin. In this example, the CSS creates a banner that stretches across the window, with a 40-pixel gap between both sides of the banner and the edges of the window:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.banner {<br/>  position: absolute;<br/>  left: 40px;<br/>  width: calc(100% - 80px);<br/>  border: solid black 1px;<br/>  box-shadow: 1px 2px;<br/>  background-color: yellow;<br/>  padding: 6px;<br/>  text-align: center;<br/>  box-sizing: border-box;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=banner>This is a banner!</div><br/>```<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Positioning_an_object_on_screen_with_a_margin', 'auto', '60')}}<br/><br/>### Automatically sizing form fields to fit their container<br/><br/>Another use case for `calc()` is to help ensure that form fields fit in the available space, without extruding past the edge of their container, while maintaining an appropriate margin.<br/><br/>Let's look at some CSS:<br/><br/>```css<br/>input {<br/>  padding: 2px;<br/>  display: block;<br/>  width: calc(100% - 1em);<br/>}<br/><br/>#formbox {<br/>  width: calc(100% / 6);<br/>  border: 1px solid black;<br/>  padding: 4px;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>Here, the form itself is established to use 1/6 of the available window width. Then, to ensure that input fields retain an appropriate size, we use `calc()` again to establish that they should be the width of their container minus 1em. Then, the following HTML makes use of this CSS:<br/><br/>```html<br/><form><br/>  <div id=formbox><br/>  <label>Type something:</label><br/>  <input type=text><br/>  </div><br/></form><br/>```<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Automatically_sizing_form_fields_to_fit_their_container', '700', '80')}}<br/><br/>### Nested `calc()` with CSS Variables<br/><br/>You can also use `calc()` with [CSS variables](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Variables). Consider the following code:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.foo {<br/>  --widthA: 100px;<br/>  --widthB: calc(var(--widthA) / 2);<br/>  --widthC: calc(var(--widthB) / 2);<br/>  width: var(--widthC);<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>After all variables are expanded, `widthC`'s value will be `calc( calc( 100px / 2) / 2)`, then when it's assigned to `.foo`'s width property, all inner `calc()`s (no matter how deeply nested) will be flattened to just parentheses, so the `width` property's value will be eventually `calc( ( 100px / 2) / 2)`, i.e. `25px`. In short: a `calc()` inside of a `calc()` is identical to just parentheses.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Firefox 4: CSS3 calc() ✩ Mozilla Hacks – the Web developer blog](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2010/06/css3-calc/)<br/>