## ✔️ color-scheme 
 ---<br/>title: color-scheme<br/>slug: Web/CSS/color-scheme<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Colors<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - HTML Colors<br/>  - HTML Styles<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Styling HTML<br/>  - Styling text<br/>  - Web<br/>  - color-scheme<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.color-scheme<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`color-scheme`** CSS property allows an element to indicate which color schemes it can comfortably be rendered in.<br/><br/>Common choices for operating system color schemes are light and dark, or day mode and night mode. When a user selects one of these color schemes, the operating system makes adjustments to the user interface. This includes form controls, scrollbars, and the used values of CSS system colors.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>color-scheme: normal;<br/>color-scheme: light;<br/>color-scheme: dark;<br/>color-scheme: light dark;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>color-scheme: inherit;<br/>color-scheme: initial;<br/>color-scheme: revert;<br/>color-scheme: revert-layer;<br/>color-scheme: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `color-scheme` property's value must be one of the following keywords.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : Indicates that the element isn't aware of any color schemes, and so should be rendered using the browser's default color scheme.<br/>- `light`<br/>  - : Indicates that the element can be rendered using the operating system light color scheme.<br/>- `dark`<br/>  - : Indicates that the element can be rendered using the operating system dark color scheme.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Adapting to color schemes<br/><br/>To opt the entire page into the user's color scheme preferences declare `color-scheme` on the {{cssxref(:root)}} element.<br/><br/>```css<br/>:root {<br/>  color-scheme: light dark;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Applying color to HTML elements using CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Applying_color)<br/>- Other color-related properties: {{cssxref(color)}}, {{cssxref(background-color)}}, {{cssxref(border-color)}}, {{cssxref(outline-color)}}, {{cssxref(text-decoration-color)}}, {{cssxref(text-emphasis-color)}}, {{cssxref(text-shadow)}}, {{cssxref(caret-color)}}, and {{cssxref(column-rule-color)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(background-image)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(print-color-adjust)}}<br/>