## ✔️ column-fill 
 ---<br/>title: column-fill<br/>slug: Web/CSS/column-fill<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Multi-column Layout<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.column-fill<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`column-fill`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property controls how an element's contents are balanced when broken into columns.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/column-fill.html)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>column-fill: auto;<br/>column-fill: balance;<br/>column-fill: balance-all;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>column-fill: inherit;<br/>column-fill: initial;<br/>column-fill: revert;<br/>column-fill: revert-layer;<br/>column-fill: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `column-fill` property is specified as one of the keyword values listed below. The initial value is `balance` so the content will be balanced across the columns.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : Columns are filled sequentially. Content takes up only the room it needs, possibly resulting in some columns remaining empty.<br/>- `balance`<br/>  - : Content is equally divided between columns. In fragmented contexts, such as [paged media](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Paged_Media), only the last fragment is balanced. Therefore in paged media, only the last page would be balanced.<br/>- `balance-all`<br/>  - : Content is equally divided between columns. In fragmented contexts, such as [paged media](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Paged_Media), all fragments are balanced.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Example<br/><br/>### Balancing column content<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p class=fill-auto><br/>  This paragraph fills columns one at a time. Since all of the text can fit in the first column, the others are empty.<br/></p><br/><br/><p class=fill-balance><br/>  This paragraph attempts to balance the amount of content in each column.<br/></p><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>p {<br/>  height: 7em;<br/>  background: #ff9;<br/>  columns: 3;<br/>  column-rule: 1px solid;<br/>}<br/><br/>p.fill-auto {<br/>  column-fill: auto;<br/>}<br/><br/>p.fill-balance {<br/>  column-fill: balance;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Balancing_column_content', 'auto', 320)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>> **Warning:** There are some interoperability issues and bugs with `column-fill` across browsers, due to unresolved issues in the specification.<br/>><br/>> In particular, when using `column-fill: auto` to fill columns sequentially, Chrome will only consult this property if the multicol container has a size in the block dimension (e.g., height in a horizontal writing mode). Firefox will always consult this property, therefore filling the first column with all of the content in cases where there is no size.<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Multiple-column Layout](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Multiple-column_Layout)<br/>- {{CSSXref(column-count)}}<br/>- {{CSSXref(column-width)}}<br/>