## ✔️ computed_value 
 ---<br/>title: Computed value<br/>slug: Web/CSS/computed_value<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Reference<br/>spec-urls: https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS22/cascade.html#computed-value<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **computed value** of a [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property is the value that is transferred from parent to child during inheritance. It is calculated from the [specified value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/specified_value) by:<br/><br/>1. Handling the special values {{cssxref(inherit)}}, {{cssxref(initial)}}, {{cssxref(revert)}}, {{cssxref(revert-layer)}}, and {{cssxref(unset)}}.<br/>2. Doing the computation needed to reach the value described in the Computed value line in the property's definition table.<br/><br/>The computation needed to reach a property's computed value typically involves converting relative values (such as those in `em` units or percentages) to absolute values. For example, if an element has specified values `font-size: 16px` and `padding-top: 2em`, then the computed value of `padding-top` is `32px` (double the font size).<br/><br/>However, for some properties (those where percentages are relative to something that may require layout to determine, such as `width`, `margin-right`, `text-indent`, and `top`), percentage-specified values turn into percentage-computed values. Additionally, unitless numbers specified on the `line-height` property become the computed value, as specified. The relative values that remain in the computed value become absolute when the [used value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/used_value) is determined.<br/><br/>> **Note:** The {{domxref(Window.getComputedStyle, getComputedStyle())}} DOM API returns the [resolved value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/resolved_value), which may either be the [computed value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/computed_value) or the [used value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/used_value), depending on the property.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{domxref(window.getComputedStyle)}}<br/>- {{CSS_key_concepts}}<br/>