## ✔️ counter-set 
 ---<br/>title: counter-set<br/>slug: Web/CSS/counter-set<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Counter<br/>  - CSS Lists<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.counter-set<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`counter-set`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets a [CSS counter](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Counter_Styles/Using_CSS_counters) to a given value. It manipulates the value of existing counters, and will only create new counters if there isn't already a counter of the given name on the element.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/counter-set.html)}}<br/><br/>> **Note:** The counter's value can be incremented or decremented using the {{cssxref(counter-increment)}} CSS property.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Set my-counter to 0 */<br/>counter-set: my-counter;<br/><br/>/* Set my-counter to -1 */<br/>counter-set: my-counter -1;<br/><br/>/* Set counter1 to 1, and counter2 to 4 */<br/>counter-set: counter1 1 counter2 4;<br/><br/>/* Cancel any counter that could have been set in less specific rules */<br/>counter-set: none;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>counter-set: inherit;<br/>counter-set: initial;<br/>counter-set: revert;<br/>counter-set: revert-layer;<br/>counter-set: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `counter-set` property is specified as either one of the following:<br/><br/>- A `<custom-ident>` naming the counter, followed optionally by an `<integer>`. You may specify as many counters to reset as you want, with each name or name-number pair separated by a space.<br/>- The keyword value `none`.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(custom-ident, &lt;custom-ident&gt;)}}<br/>  - : The name of the counter to set.<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;integer&gt;)}}<br/>  - : The value to set the counter to on each occurrence of the element. Defaults to `0` if not specified. If there isn't currently a counter of the given name on the element, the element will create a new counter of the given name with a starting value of 0 (though it may then immediately set or increment that value to something different).<br/>- `none`<br/>  - : No counter set is to be performed. This can be used to override a `counter-set` defined in a less specific rule.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting named counters<br/><br/>```css<br/>h1 {<br/>  counter-set: chapter section 1 page;<br/>  /* Sets the chapter and page counters to 0,<br/>     and the section counter to 1 */<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Using CSS Counters](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Counter_Styles/Using_CSS_counters)<br/>- {{cssxref(counter-increment)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(counter-reset)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(@counter-style)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(counter, counter())}} and {{cssxref(counters, counters())}} functions<br/>- {{cssxref(content)}} property<br/>