## ✔️ counter-reset 
 ---<br/>title: counter-reset<br/>slug: Web/CSS/counter-reset<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Counter<br/>  - CSS Lists<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.counter-reset<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`counter-reset`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property resets a [CSS counter](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Counter_Styles/Using_CSS_counters) to a given value.<br/>This property will create a new counter or reversed counter with the given name on the specified element.<br/><br/>Normal counters have a default initial value of 0.<br/>Reversed counters are intended to count down, and have a default initial value set to the number of elements at the current level.<br/>The default initial values make it easy to implement the two most common numbering patterns: counting up from one to the number of elements, and counting down from the number of elements to one.<br/><br/>A counter's value is increased or decreased using the {{cssxref(counter-increment)}} CSS property, and the value of an existing counter may be set using {{cssxref(counter-set)}}.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/counter-reset.html)}}<br/><br/>In addition to author-created counters, the property can also reset the `list-item` counters used by ordered lists (as created using {{HTMLElement(ol)}} elements).<br/>These have the same behavior as author-created counters, except they are _automatically_ incremented/decremented by one with each list element.<br/>This behavior can be overridden using {{cssxref(counter-increment)}}.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Set my-counter to 0 */<br/>counter-reset: my-counter;<br/><br/>/* Set my-counter to -3 */<br/>counter-reset: my-counter -3;<br/><br/>/* Set reversed my-counter to the number of peer elements */<br/>counter-reset: reversed(my-counter);<br/><br/>/* Set reversed my-counter to -1 */<br/>counter-reset: reversed(my-counter) -1;<br/><br/>/* Set counter2 to 9 and reversed counter1 and counter3 to 1 and 4, respectively*/<br/>counter-reset: reversed(counter1) 1 counter2 9 reversed(counter3) 4;<br/><br/>/* Cancel any reset that could have been set in less specific rules */<br/>counter-reset: none;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>counter-reset: inherit;<br/>counter-reset: initial;<br/>counter-reset: revert;<br/>counter-reset: revert-layer;<br/>counter-reset: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `counter-reset` property is specified as either one of the following:<br/><br/>- A `<custom-ident>` or a `reversed(<custom-ident>)` naming the counter, followed optionally by an `<integer>`.<br/>  Note that the `reversed()` method is used to create a reversed counter.<br/>  You may specify as many counters and reversed counters to reset as you want, with each counter or counter-number pair separated by a space.<br/>- The keyword value `none`.<br/><br/>The implicit counter named `list-item` can be used to control the numbering for ordered lists, as created using {{HTMLElement(ol)}}<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(custom-ident, &lt;custom-ident&gt;)}}<br/>  - : The name of the counter to reset.<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;integer&gt;)}}<br/>  - : The value to reset the counter to on each occurrence of the element.<br/>    Defaults to `0` if not specified.<br/>- `none`<br/>  - : No counter reset is to be performed.<br/>    This can be used to override a `counter-reset` defined in a less specific rule.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>The following examples show how to reset the counters, but not how they are incremented, decremented, and displayed.<br/><br/>For more-complete examples see [Using CSS Counters](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Counter_Styles/Using_CSS_counters).<br/><br/>### Resetting named counters<br/><br/>```css<br/>h1 {<br/>  counter-reset: chapter section 1 page;<br/>  /* Sets the chapter and page counters to 0,<br/>     and the section counter to 1 */<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### Reversing a counter<br/><br/>```css<br/>h1 {<br/>  counter-reset: reversed(chapter) reversed(section) 1 page;<br/>  /* Sets the reversed flag on the chapter and section counters.<br/>     Sets the chapter to the number of elements, the section counter to 1,<br/>     and the page counters to 0*/<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Using CSS Counters](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Counter_Styles/Using_CSS_counters)<br/>- {{cssxref(counter-increment)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(counter-set)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(@counter-style)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(counter, counter())}} and {{cssxref(counters, counters())}} functions<br/>- {{cssxref(content)}} property<br/>