## ✔️ css_columns 
 ---<br/>title: CSS Multi-column Layout<br/>slug: Web/CSS/CSS_Columns<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Multi-column Layout<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Overview<br/>  - Reference<br/>spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-multicol/<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef(CSS3 Multicol)}}<br/><br/>**CSS Multi-column Layout** is a module of CSS that adds support for multi-column layouts. Support is included for establishing the number of columns in a layout, as well as how content should flow from column to column, gap sizes between columns, and column dividing lines (known as column rules) along with their appearance.<br/><br/>## Basic example<br/><br/>In the following example the {{cssxref(column-count)}} property has been applied to the element with a class of container. As the value of `column-count` is `3`, the content is arranged into 3 columns of equal size.<br/><br/>{{EmbedGHLiveSample(css-examples/multicol/basics/column-count.html, '100%', 550)}}<br/><br/>## Relationship to Fragmentation<br/><br/>Multiple-column Layout is closely related to [Paged Media](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Pages), in that each column box becomes a fragment, much like a printed page becomes a fragment of an overall document. Therefore the properties now defined in the [CSS Fragmentation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Fragmentation) specification are required in order to control how content breaks between columns.<br/><br/>## Reference<br/><br/>### Multiple-column Layout Properties<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(column-count)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-fill)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-gap)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-rule)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-rule-color)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-rule-style)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-rule-width)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-span)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(column-width)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(columns)}}<br/><br/>### Related CSS Fragmentation Properties<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(break-after)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(break-before)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(break-inside)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(orphans)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(widows)}}<br/><br/>## Guides<br/><br/>- [Basic Concepts of Multicol](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns/Basic_Concepts_of_Multicol)<br/>  - : An overview of the Multiple-column Layout specification<br/>- [Styling Columns](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns/Styling_Columns)<br/>  - : How to use column rules and manage the spacing between columns.<br/>- [Spanning and Balancing](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns/Spanning_Columns)<br/>  - : How to make elements span across all columns and controlling the way columns are filled.<br/>- [Handling Overflow in Multicol](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns/Handling_Overflow_in_Multicol)<br/>  - : What happens when an item overflows the column it is in and what happens when there is too much columned content to fit a container.<br/>- [Content Breaks in Multicol](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns/Handling_content_breaks_in_multicol)<br/>  - : Introduction to the Fragmentation specification and how to control where column content breaks.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>Other CSS layout technologies include:<br/><br/>- [CSS Flexible Box Layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout) (CSS flexbox)<br/>- [CSS Grid Layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout)<br/>