## ✔️ css_values_and_units 
 ---<br/>title: CSS values and units<br/>slug: Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - values and units<br/>spec-urls:<br/>  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values/<br/>  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color/<br/>  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-images/<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>Every CSS declaration includes a property / value pair. Depending on the property, the value can include a single integer or keyword, to a series of keywords and values with or without units. There are a common set of data types -- values and units -- that CSS properties accept. Below is an overview of most of these data types. Refer to the page for each value type for more detailed information.<br/><br/>## Textual data types<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;custom-ident&gt;)}}<br/>- Pre-defined keywords as an `<ident>`<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;string&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(url,url())}}<br/><br/>Text data types are either `<string>`, a quoted series of characters, or an `<ident>`, a CSS Identifier which is an unquoted string. A `<string>` must be quoted with either single or double quotes. CSS Identifiers, listed in the specifications as `<ident>` or `<custom-ident>`, must be unquoted.<br/><br/>In the CSS specifications, values that can be defined by the web developer, like keyframe animations, font-family names, or grid areas are listed as a  {{cssxref(&lt;custom-ident&gt;)}}, {{cssxref(&lt;string&gt;)}}, or both.<br/><br/>When both quoted and unquoted user defined text values are permitted, the specification will list `<custom-ident> | <string>`, meaning quotes are optional, such as is the case with animation names:<br/><br/>```css<br/>@keyframe validIdent {<br/>  /* keyframes go here */<br/>}<br/>@keyframe 'validString' {<br/>  /* keyframes go here */<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>Some text values are not valid if encompassed in quotes. For example, the value of {{cssxref(grid-area)}} can be a `<custom-ident>`, so if we had a grid area named `content` we would use it without quotes:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.item {<br/>  grid-area: content;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>In comparison, a data type that is a {{cssxref(&lt;string&gt;)}}, such as a string value of the {{cssxref(content)}} property, must be quoted:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.item::after {<br/>    content: This is my content.;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>While you can generally create any name you want, including using emojis, the identifier can't be `none`, `unset`, `initial`, or `inherit`, start with a digit or two dashes, and generally you don't want it to be any other pre-defined CSS keyword. See the {{cssxref(&lt;custom-ident&gt;)}} and {{cssxref(&lt;string&gt;)}} reference pages for more details.<br/><br/>### Pre-defined keyword values<br/><br/>Pre-defined keywords are text values defined by the specification for that property. These keywords are also CSS Identifiers and are therefore used without quotes.<br/><br/>When viewing CSS property value syntax in a CSS specification or the MDN property page, allowable keywords will be listed in the following form. The following values are the pre-defined keyword values allowed for {{cssxref(float)}}.<br/><br/>```css<br/>left | right | none | inline-start | inline-end<br/>```<br/><br/>Such values are used without quotes:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.box {<br/>    float: left;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### CSS-wide values<br/><br/>In addition to the pre-defined keywords that are part of the specification for a property, all CSS properties accept the CSS-wide property values {{cssxref(initial)}}, {{cssxref(inherit)}}, and {{cssxref(unset)}}, which explicitly specify defaulting behaviors.<br/><br/>The `initial` keyword represents the value specified as the property's initial value. The `inherit` keyword represents the computed value of the property on the element's parent, provided it is inherited.<br/><br/>The `unset` keyword acts as either `inherit` or `initial`, depending on whether the property is inherited or not.<br/><br/>A fourth value of {{cssxref(revert)}} was added in the Cascade Level 4 specification, but it does not currently have good browser support.<br/><br/>### URLs<br/><br/>A {{cssxref(url,url())}} type uses functional notation, which accepts a `<string>` that is a URL. This may be an absolute URL or a relative URL. For example, if you wanted to include a background image, you might use either of the following.<br/><br/>```css<br/>.box {<br/>  background-image: url(images/my-background.png);<br/>}<br/><br/>.box {<br/>  background-image: url(https://www.exammple.com/images/my-background.png);<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>The parameter for `url()` can be either quoted or unquoted. If unquoted, it is parsed as a `<url-token>`, which has extra requirements including the escaping of certain characters. See {{cssxref(url,url())}}  for more information.<br/><br/>## Numeric data types<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;integer&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;number&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;dimension&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}<br/><br/>### Integers<br/><br/>An integer is one or more decimal digits, `0` through `9`, such as `1024` or `-55`. An integer may be preceded by a `+` or `-` symbol, with no space between the symbol and the integer.<br/><br/>### Numbers<br/><br/>A {{cssxref(&lt;number&gt;)}} represents a real number, which may or may not have a decimal point with a fractional component, for example `0.255`, `128` or `-1.2`. Numbers may also be preceded by a `+` or `-` symbol.<br/><br/>### Dimensions<br/><br/>A {{cssxref(&lt;dimension&gt;)}} is a `<number>` with a unit attached to it, for example `45deg`, `100ms`, or `10px`. The attached unit identifier is case insensitive. There is never a space or any other characters between a the number and the unit identifier: i.e. `1 cm` is not valid.<br/><br/>CSS uses dimensions to specify:<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}} (Distance units)<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;angle&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;time&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;frequency&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;resolution&gt;)}}<br/><br/>These are all covered in subsections below.<br/><br/>#### Distance units<br/><br/>Where a distance unit, also known as a length, is allowed as a value for a property, this is described as the {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}} type. There are two types of lengths in CSS: relative and absolute.<br/><br/>Relative length units specify a length in relation to something else. For example, `em` is relative to the font size on the element and `vh` is relative to the viewport height.<br/><br/>| Unit   | Relative to                                                                                                                            |<br/>| ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |<br/>| `em`   | Font size of the element.                                                                                                              |<br/>| `ex`   | x-height of the element's font.                                                                                                        |<br/>| `cap`  | Cap height (the nominal height of capital letters) of the element's font.                                                              |<br/>| `ch`   | Average character advance of a narrow glyph in the element's font, as represented by the 0 (ZERO, U+0030) glyph.                     |<br/>| `ic`   | Average character advance of a full width glyph in the element's font, as represented by the 水 (CJK water ideograph, U+6C34) glyph. |<br/>| `rem`  | Font size of the root element.                                                                                                         |<br/>| `lh`   | Line height of the element.                                                                                                            |<br/>| `rlh`  | Line height of the root element.                                                                                                       |<br/>| `vw`   | 1% of viewport's width.                                                                                                                |<br/>| `vh`   | 1% of viewport's height.                                                                                                               |<br/>| `vi`   | 1% of viewport's size in the root element's inline axis.                                                                               |<br/>| `vb`   | 1% of viewport's size in the root element's block axis.                                                                                |<br/>| `vmin` | 1% of viewport's smaller dimension.                                                                                                    |<br/>| `vmax` | 1% of viewport's larger dimension.                                                                                                     |<br/><br/>Absolute length units are fixed to a physical length: either an inch or a centimeter. Many of these units are therefore more useful when the output is a fixed size media, such as print. For example, `mm` is a physical millimeter, 1/10th of a centimeter.<br/><br/>| Unit | Name                | Equivalent to       |<br/>| ---- | ------------------- | ------------------- |<br/>| `cm` | Centimeters         | 1cm = 96px/2.54     |<br/>| `mm` | Millimeters         | 1mm = 1/10th of 1cm |<br/>| `Q`  | Quarter-millimeters | 1Q = 1/40th of 1cm  |<br/>| `in` | Inches              | 1in = 2.54cm = 96px |<br/>| `pc` | Picas               | 1pc = 1/6th of 1in |<br/>| `pt` | Points              | 1pt = 1/72th of 1in |<br/>| `px` | Pixels              | 1px = 1/96th of 1in |<br/><br/>When including a length value, if the length is `0`, the unit identifier is not required. Otherwise, the unit identifier is required, is case insensitive, and must come immediately after the numeric part of the value, with no space in-between.<br/><br/>#### Angle units<br/><br/>Angle values are represented by the type {{cssxref(&lt;angle&gt;)}} and accept the following values:<br/><br/>| Unit   | Name     | Description                              |<br/>| ------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------- |<br/>| `deg`  | Degrees  | There are 360 degrees in a full circle.  |<br/>| `grad` | Gradians | There are 400 gradians in a full circle. |<br/>| `rad`  | Radians  | There are 2π radians in a full circle.   |<br/>| `turn` | Turns    | There is 1 turn in a full circle.        |<br/><br/>#### Time units<br/><br/>Time values are represented by the type {{cssxref(&lt;time&gt;)}}. When including a time value, the unit identifier -- the `s` or `ms` -- is required. It accepts the following values.<br/><br/>| Unit | Name         | Description                               |<br/>| ---- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------- |<br/>| `s`  | Seconds      |                                           |<br/>| `ms` | Milliseconds | There are 1,000 milliseconds in a second. |<br/><br/>#### Frequency units<br/><br/>Frequency values are represented by the type {{cssxref(&lt;frequency&gt;)}}. It accepts the following values.<br/><br/>| Unit  | Name      | Description                                      |<br/>| ----- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------ |<br/>| `Hz`  | Hertz     | Represents the number of occurrences per second. |<br/>| `kHz` | KiloHertz | A kiloHertz is 1000 Hertz.                       |<br/><br/>`1Hz`, which can also be written as `1hz` or `1HZ`, is one cycle per second.<br/><br/>#### Resolution units<br/><br/>Resolution units are represented by the type {{cssxref(&lt;resolution&gt;)}}. They represent the size of a single dot in a graphical representation, such as a screen, by indicating how many of these dots fit in a CSS inch, centimeter, or pixel. It accepts the following values:<br/><br/>| Unit        | Description          |<br/>| ----------- | -------------------- |<br/>| `dpi`       | Dots per inch.       |<br/>| `dpcm`      | Dots per centimeter. |<br/>| `dppx`, `x` | Dots per px unit.    |<br/><br/>### Percentages<br/><br/>A {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}} is a type that represents a fraction of some other value.<br/><br/>Percentage values are always relative to another quantity, for example a length. Each property that allows percentages also defines the quantity to which the percentage refers. This quantity can be a value of another property of the same element, the value of a property of an ancestor element, a measurement of a containing block, or something else.<br/><br/>As an example, if you specify the {{cssxref(width)}} of a box as a percentage, it refers to the percentage of the box's parent's computed width:<br/><br/>```css<br/>.box {<br/>  width: 50%;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### Mixing percentages and dimensions<br/><br/>Some properties accept a dimension that could be either one of two types, for example a `<length>` **or** a `<percentage>`. In this case the allowed value is detailed in the specification as a combination unit, e.g. {{cssxref(&lt;length-percentage&gt;)}}. Other possible combinations are as follows:<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;frequency-percentage&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;angle-percentage&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;time-percentage&gt;)}}<br/><br/>### Special data types (defined in other specs)<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;color&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;image&gt;)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;position&gt;)}}<br/><br/>#### Color<br/><br/>The {{cssxref(&lt;color&gt;)}} value specifies the color of an element feature (e.g. it's background color), and is defined in the [CSS Color Module](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-3/).<br/><br/>#### Image<br/><br/>The {{cssxref(&lt;image&gt;)}} value specifies all the different types of image that can be used in CSS, and is defined in the [CSS Image Values and Replaced Content Module](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-images-4/).<br/><br/>#### Position<br/><br/>The {{cssxref(&lt;position&gt;)}} type defines 2D positioning of an object inside a positioning area, for example a background image inside a container. This type is interpreted as a  {{cssxref(background-position)}} and therefore specified in the [CSS Backgrounds and Borders specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-backgrounds-3/).<br/><br/>### Functional notation<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(calc, calc())}}<br/>- {{cssxref(min, min())}}<br/>- {{cssxref(max, max())}}<br/>- {{cssxref(minmax, minmax())}}<br/>- {{cssxref(clamp, clamp())}}<br/>- {{cssxref(toggle, toggle())}}<br/>- {{cssxref(attr, attr())}}<br/><br/>[Functional notation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) is a type of value that can represent more complex types or invoke special processing by CSS. The syntax starts with the name of the function immediately followed by a left parenthesis `(` followed by the argument(s) to the notation followed by a right parenthesis `)`. Functions can take multiple arguments, which are formatted similarly to a CSS property value.<br/><br/>White space is allowed, but optional inside the parentheses. (But see notes regarding whitespace within pages for `min()`, `max()`, `minmax()`, and `clamp()` functions.)<br/><br/>Some legacy functional notations such as `rgba()` use commas, but generally commas are only used to separate items in a list. If a comma is used to separate arguments, white space is optional before and after the comma.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [CSS Basic Data Types](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types)<br/>- [Introduction to CSS: Values and Units](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Values_and_units)<br/>