## ✔️ css_box_model 
 ---<br/>title: CSS Box Model<br/>slug: Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Box Model<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Overview<br/>  - Reference<br/>spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-box/<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>**CSS Box Model** is a module of CSS that defines the rectangular boxes—including their padding and margin—that are generated for elements and laid out according to the [visual formatting model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Visual_formatting_model).<br/><br/>## The Box Model<br/><br/>A box in CSS consists of a content area, which is where any text, images, or other HTML elements are displayed. This is optionally surrounded by padding, a border, and a margin, on one or more sides. The box model describes how these elements work together to create a box as displayed by CSS. To learn more about it read [Introduction to the CSS Box Model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Introduction_to_the_CSS_box_model).<br/><br/>### Box-edge keywords<br/><br/>The Box Model specification defines a set of keywords that refer to the edges of each part of the box, these are used as keyword values in CSS including as a value for the {{cssxref(box-sizing)}} property, to control how the box model calculates its size.<br/><br/>- `content-box`<br/>  - : The edge of the content area of the box.<br/>- `padding-box`<br/>  - : The edge of the padding of the box, if there is no padding on a side then this is the same as `content-box`.<br/>- `border-box`<br/>  - : The edge of the border of the box, if there is no border on a side then this is the same as `padding-box`.<br/>- `margin-box`<br/>  - : The edge of the margin of the box, if there is no margin on a side then this is the same as `border-box`.<br/>- `stroke-box`<br/>  - : In SVG refers to the stroke bounding box, in CSS treated as `content-box`.<br/>- `view-box`<br/>  - : In SVG refers to the nearest SVG viewport element's origin box, which is a rectangle with the width and height of the initial SVG user coordinate system established by the {{svgattr(viewBox)}} attribute for that element. In CSS treated as `border-box`.<br/><br/>## Reference<br/><br/>### Properties<br/><br/>> **Note:** This specification defines the physical padding and margin properties. Flow-relative properties, which relate to text direction, are defined in [Logical Properties and Values](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Logical_Properties).<br/><br/>#### Properties controlling the margins of a box<br/><br/>Margins surround the border edge of a box, and provide spacing between boxes.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(margin)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(margin-bottom)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(margin-left)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(margin-right)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(margin-top)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(margin-trim)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>#### Properties controlling the paddings of a box<br/><br/>Padding is inserted between the content edge and border edge of a box.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(padding)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(padding-bottom)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(padding-left)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(padding-right)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(padding-top)}}<br/><br/>#### Other properties<br/><br/>There are other properties that relate to the box model, that are defined elsewhere.<br/><br/>- [Borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders)<br/>  - : The border properties specify the thickness of the border, drawing style and color.<br/>- [Overflow](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/overflow)<br/>  - : Controls what happens when there is too much content to fit into a box.<br/><br/>## Guides<br/><br/>- [Introduction to the CSS box model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Introduction_to_the_CSS_box_model)<br/>  - : Explains one of the fundamental concept of CSS: the box model. This model defines how CSS lays out elements, including their content, padding, border, and margin areas.<br/>- [Mastering margin collapsing](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing)<br/>  - : Sometimes, two adjacent margins are collapsed into one. This article describes the rules that govern when and why this happens, and how to control it.<br/>- [Visual formatting model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Visual_formatting_model)<br/>  - : Explains the visual formatting model.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/>