## ✔️ css_selectors 
 ---<br/>title: CSS selectors<br/>slug: Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Overview<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Selectors<br/>spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/selectors/<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef(Selectors)}}<br/><br/>**CSS selectors** define the elements to which a set of CSS rules apply.<br/><br/>> **Note:** There are no selectors or combinators to select parent items, siblings of parents, or children of parent siblings.<br/><br/>## Basic selectors<br/><br/>- [Universal selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Universal_selectors)<br/>  - : Selects all elements. Optionally, it may be restricted to a specific namespace or to all namespaces.<br/>    **Syntax:** `*` `ns|*` `*|*`<br/>    **Example:** `*` will match all the elements of the document.<br/><br/>- [Type selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Type_selectors)<br/>  - : Selects all elements that have the given node name.<br/>    **Syntax:** `elementname`<br/>    **Example:** `input` will match any {{HTMLElement(input)}} element.<br/><br/>- [Class selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Class_selectors)<br/>  - : Selects all elements that have the given `class` attribute.<br/>    **Syntax:** `.classname`<br/>    **Example:** `.index` will match any element that has a class of index.<br/><br/>- [ID selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/ID_selectors)<br/>  - : Selects an element based on the value of its `id` attribute. There should be only one element with a given ID in a document.<br/>    **Syntax:** `#idname`<br/>    **Example:** `#toc` will match the element that has the ID toc.<br/><br/>- [Attribute selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Attribute_selectors)<br/>  - : Selects all elements that have the given attribute.<br/>    **Syntax:** `[attr]` `[attr=value]` `[attr~=value]` `[attr|=value]` `[attr^=value]` `[attr$=value]` `[attr*=value]`<br/>    **Example:** `[autoplay]` will match all elements that have the `autoplay` attribute set (to any value).<br/><br/>## Grouping selectors<br/><br/>- [Selector list](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Selector_list)<br/>  - : The `,` selector is a grouping method that selects all the matching nodes.<br/>    **Syntax:** `A, B`<br/>    **Example:** `div, span` will match both {{HTMLElement(span)}} and {{HTMLElement(div)}} elements.<br/><br/>## Combinators<br/><br/>- [Descendant combinator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Descendant_combinator)<br/>  - : The   (space) combinator selects nodes that are descendants of the first element.<br/>    **Syntax:** `A B`<br/>    **Example:** `div span` will match all {{HTMLElement(span)}} elements that are inside a {{HTMLElement(div)}} element.<br/><br/>- [Child combinator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Child_combinator)<br/>  - : The `>` combinator selects nodes that are direct children of the first element.<br/>    **Syntax:** `A > B`<br/>    **Example:** `ul > li` will match all {{HTMLElement(li)}} elements that are nested directly inside a {{HTMLElement(ul)}} element.<br/><br/>- [General sibling combinator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/General_sibling_combinator)<br/>  - : The `~` combinator selects siblings. This means that the second element follows the first (though not necessarily immediately), and both share the same parent.<br/>    **Syntax:** `A ~ B`<br/>    **Example:** `p ~ span` will match all {{HTMLElement(span)}} elements that follow a {{HTMLElement(p)}}, immediately or not.<br/><br/>- [Adjacent sibling combinator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Adjacent_sibling_combinator)<br/>  - : The `+` combinator matches the second element only if it _immediately_ follows the first element.<br/>    **Syntax:** `A + B`<br/>    **Example:** `h2 + p` will match all {{HTMLElement(p)}} elements that _immediately_ follow an {{HTMLElement(h2)}} element.<br/><br/>- [Column combinator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Column_combinator) {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>  - : The `||` combinator selects nodes which belong to a column.<br/>    **Syntax:** `A || B`<br/>    **Example:** `col || td` will match all {{HTMLElement(td)}} elements that belong to the scope of the {{HTMLElement(col)}}.<br/><br/>## Pseudo<br/><br/>- [Pseudo classes](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes)<br/>  - : The `:` pseudo allow the selection of elements based on state information that is not contained in the document tree.<br/>    **Example:** `a:visited` will match all {{HTMLElement(a)}} elements that have been visited by the user.<br/><br/>- [Pseudo elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements)<br/>  - : The `::` pseudo represent entities that are not included in HTML.<br/>    **Example:** `p::first-line` will match the first line of all {{HTMLElement(p)}} elements.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>See the [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes#Specifications) and [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements#Specifications) specification tables for details on those.<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [CSS Specificity](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity)<br/>