## ✔️ direction 
 ---<br/>title: direction<br/>slug: Web/CSS/direction<br/>tags:<br/>  - BiDi<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.direction<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`direction`** CSS property sets the direction of text, table columns, and horizontal overflow. Use `rtl` for languages written from right to left (like Hebrew or Arabic), and `ltr` for those written from left to right (like English and most other languages).<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/direction.html)}}<br/><br/>Note that text direction is usually defined within a document (e.g., with [HTML's `dir` attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/dir)) rather than through direct use of the `direction` property.<br/><br/>The property sets the base text direction of block-level elements and the direction of embeddings created by the {{Cssxref(unicode-bidi)}} property. It also sets the default alignment of text, block-level elements, and the direction that cells flow within a table row.<br/><br/>Unlike the `dir` attribute in HTML, the `direction` property is not inherited from table columns into table cells, since CSS inheritance follows the document tree, and table cells are inside of rows but not inside of columns.<br/><br/>The `direction` and {{cssxref(unicode-bidi)}} properties are the two only properties which are not affected by the {{cssxref(all)}} shorthand property.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>direction: ltr;<br/>direction: rtl;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>direction: inherit;<br/>direction: initial;<br/>direction: revert;<br/>direction: revert-layer;<br/>direction: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `ltr`<br/>  - : Text and other elements go from left to right. This is the default value.<br/>- `rtl`<br/>  - : Text and other elements go from right to left.<br/><br/>For the `direction` property to have any effect on inline-level elements, the {{Cssxref(unicode-bidi)}} property's value must be `embed` or `override`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting right-to-left direction<br/><br/>In the example below are two strings of text, both which are displaying using `direction: rtl`. While the Arabic text is displayed correctly with this setting, the English text now has a full stop in an unusual location.<br/><br/>```css<br/>blockquote {<br/>  direction: rtl;<br/>  width: 300px;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>```html<br/><blockquote><br/><p>This paragraph is in English but incorrectly goes right to left.<p><br/></blockquote><br/><br/><blockquote><br/><p>هذه الفقرة باللغة العربية ، لذا يجب الانتقال من اليمين إلى اليسار.<p><br/></blockquote><br/>```<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Setting_right-to-left_direction', '100%', 200)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{Cssxref(unicode-bidi)}}<br/>- {{Cssxref(writing-mode)}}<br/>- The HTML {{htmlattrxref(dir)}} global attribute<br/>