## ✔️ display-inside 
 ---<br/>title: <display-inside><br/>slug: Web/CSS/display-inside<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Data Type<br/>  - CSS Display<br/>  - Data Type<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - display-inside<br/>spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-display/#typedef-display-inside<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>These keywords specify the element's inner {{CSSxRef(display)}} type, which defines the type of formatting context that lays out its contents (assuming it is a non-replaced element). These keywords are used as values of the `display` property, and can be used for legacy purposes as a single keyword, or as defined in the Level 3 specification alongside a value from the {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-outside&gt;)}} keywords.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>Valid `<display-inside>` values:<br/><br/>- `flow` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>  - : The element lays out its contents using flow layout (block-and-inline layout).<br/><br/>    If its outer display type is `inline` or `run-in`, and it is participating in a block or inline formatting context, then it generates an inline box. Otherwise it generates a block container box.<br/><br/>    Depending on the value of other properties (such as {{CSSxRef(position)}}, {{CSSxRef(float)}}, or {{CSSxRef(overflow)}}) and whether it is itself participating in a block or inline formatting context, it either establishes a new [block formatting context](/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/CSS/Block_formatting_context) (BFC) for its contents or integrates its contents into its parent formatting context.<br/><br/>- `flow-root`<br/>  - : The element generates a block element box that establishes a new [block formatting context](/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/CSS/Block_formatting_context), defining where the formatting root lies.<br/>- `table`<br/>  - : These elements behave like HTML {{HTMLElement(table)}} elements. It defines a block-level box.<br/>- `flex`<br/>  - : The element behaves like a block element and lays out its content according to the [flexbox model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout).<br/>- `grid`<br/>  - : The element behaves like a block element and lays out its content according to the [grid model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Grid_Layout).<br/>- `ruby` {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>  - : The element behaves like an inline element and lays out its content according to the ruby formatting model. It behaves like the corresponding HTML {{HTMLElement(ruby)}} elements.<br/><br/>> **Note:** Browsers that support the two value syntax, on finding the inner value only, such as when `display: flex` or `display: grid` is specified, will set their outer value to `block`. This will result in expected behavior; for example if you specify an element to be `display: grid`, you would expect that the box created on the grid container would be a block level box.<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>In this example the parent box has been given `display: flow-root` and so establishes a new BFC and contains the floated item.<br/><br/>### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=box><br/>  <div class=float>I am a floated box!</div><br/>  <p>I am content inside the container.</p><br/></div><br/>```<br/><br/>### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>.box {<br/>    background-color: rgb(224, 206, 247);<br/>    border: 5px solid rebeccapurple;<br/>    display: flow-root;<br/>}<br/><br/>.float {<br/>    float: left;<br/>    width: 200px;<br/>    height: 150px;<br/>    background-color: white;<br/>    border:1px solid black;<br/>    padding: 10px;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Examples, 100%, 180)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>### Support of multiple keyword values<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.multi-keyword_values, 10)}}<br/><br/>- Chromium bug: <https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=804600><br/><br/>### Support of flow-root<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.flow-root, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of table<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.table_values, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of grid<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.grid, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of flex<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.flex, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of ruby<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.ruby_values, 10)}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(display)}}<br/><br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-outside&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-listitem&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-internal&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-box&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-legacy&gt;)}}<br/><br/>- [Basic Concepts of Flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Flexbox)<br/>- [Basic Concepts of Grid Layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Grid_Layout)<br/>