## ✔️ display-legacy 
 ---<br/>title: <display-legacy><br/>slug: Web/CSS/display-legacy<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Data Type<br/>  - CSS Display<br/>  - Data Type<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - display-legacy<br/>spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-display/#typedef-display-legacy<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>CSS 2 used a single-keyword syntax for the `display` property, requiring separate keywords for block-level and inline-level variants of the same layout mode. This page details those values.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>Valid `<display-legacy>` values:<br/><br/>- `inline-block`<br/><br/>  - : The element generates a block element box that will be flowed with surrounding content as if it were a single inline box (behaving much like a replaced element would).<br/><br/>    It is equivalent to `inline flow-root`.<br/><br/>- `inline-table`<br/><br/>  - : The `inline-table` value does not have a direct mapping in HTML. It behaves like an HTML {{HTMLElement(table)}} element, but as an inline box, rather than a block-level box. Inside the table box is a block-level context.<br/><br/>    It is equivalent to `inline table`.<br/><br/>- `inline-flex`<br/><br/>  - : The element behaves like an inline element and lays out its content according to the flexbox model.<br/><br/>    It is equivalent to `inline flex`.<br/><br/>- `inline-grid`<br/><br/>  - : The element behaves like an inline element and lays out its content according to the grid model.<br/><br/>    It is equivalent to `inline grid`.<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>In the below example, we are creating an inline flex container with the legacy keyword inline-flex.<br/><br/>### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=container><br/>  <div>Flex Item</div><br/>  <div>Flex Item</div><br/></div><br/><br/>Not a flex item<br/>```<br/><br/>### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>.container {<br/>  display: inline-flex;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Examples, 300, 150)}}<br/><br/>In the new syntax the inline flex container would be created using two values, inline for the outer display type, and flex for the inner display type.<br/><br/>```css<br/>.container {<br/>  display: inline flex;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>### Support of inline-block<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.inline-block, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of inline-table<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.inline-table, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of inline-flex<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.inline-flex, 10)}}<br/><br/>### Support of inline-grid<br/><br/>{{Compat(css.properties.display.inline-grid, 10)}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(display)}}<br/><br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-outside&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-inside&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-listitem&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-internal&gt;)}}<br/>  - {{CSSxRef(&lt;display-box&gt;)}}<br/>