## ✔️ font-variant 
 ---<br/>title: font-variant<br/>slug: Web/CSS/font-variant<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Fonts<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-shorthand-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.font-variant<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`font-variant`** CSS [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) allows you to set all the font variants for a font.<br/><br/>You can also set the CSS Level 2 (Revision 1) values of `font-variant`, (that is, `normal` or `small-caps`), by using the {{cssxref(font)}} shorthand.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/font-variant.html)}}<br/><br/>## Constituent properties<br/><br/>This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-alternates)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-numeric)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>font-variant: small-caps;<br/>font-variant: common-ligatures small-caps;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>font-variant: inherit;<br/>font-variant: initial;<br/>font-variant: revert;<br/>font-variant: revert-layer;<br/>font-variant: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : Specifies a normal font face; each of the longhand properties has an initial value of normal. Longhand properties of `font-variant` are: {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-numeric)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-alternates)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}}, and {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}}.<br/>- `none`<br/>  - : Sets the value of the {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}} to `none` and the values of the other longhand property as `normal`, their initial value.<br/>- `<common-lig-values>`, `<discretionary-lig-values>`, `<historical-lig-values>`, `<contextual-alt-values>`<br/>  - : Specifies the keywords related to the {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}} longhand property. The possible values are: `common-ligatures`, `no-common-ligatures`, `discretionary-ligatures`, `no-discretionary-ligatures`, `historical-ligatures`, `no-historical-ligatures`, `contextual`, and `no-contextual`.<br/>- `stylistic()`, `historical-forms`, `styleset()`, `character-variant()`, `swash()`, `ornaments()`, `annotation()`<br/>  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the {{cssxref(font-variant-alternates)}} longhand property.<br/>- `small-caps`, `all-small-caps`, `petite-caps`, `all-petite-caps`, `unicase`, `titling-caps`<br/>  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}} longhand property.<br/>- `<numeric-figure-values>`, `<numeric-spacing-values>`, `<numeric-fraction-values>`, `ordinal`, `slashed-zero`<br/>  - : Specifies the keywords related to the {{cssxref(font-variant-numeric)}} longhand property. The possible values are:  `lining-nums`, `oldstyle-nums`, `proportional-nums`, `tabular-nums`, `diagonal-fractions`, `stacked-fractions`, `ordinal`, and `slashed-zero`.<br/>- `<east-asian-variant-values>`, `<east-asian-width-values>`, `ruby`<br/>  - : Specifies the keywords related to the {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}} longhand property. The possible values are: `jis78`, `jis83`, `jis90`, `jis04`, `simplified`, `traditional`, `full-width`, `proportional-width`, `ruby`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting the small-caps font variant<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p class=normal>Firefox rocks!</p><br/><p class=small>Firefox rocks!</p><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>p.normal {<br/>  font-variant: normal;<br/>}<br/>p.small {<br/>  font-variant: small-caps;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{ EmbedLiveSample('Setting_the_small-caps_font_variant', '', '', '', 'Web/CSS/font-variant') }}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(text-transform)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(text-combine-upright)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(text-orientation)}}<br/>