## ✔️ font-variant-alternates 
 ---<br/>title: font-variant-alternates<br/>slug: Web/CSS/font-variant-alternates<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Fonts<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.font-variant-alternates<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`font-variant-alternates`** CSS property controls the usage of alternate glyphs. These alternate glyphs may be referenced by alternative names defined in {{cssxref(@font-feature-values)}}.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>font-variant-alternates: normal;<br/>font-variant-alternates: historical-forms;<br/><br/>/* Functional notation values */<br/>font-variant-alternates: stylistic(user-defined-ident);<br/>font-variant-alternates: styleset(user-defined-ident);<br/>font-variant-alternates: character-variant(user-defined-ident);<br/>font-variant-alternates: swash(user-defined-ident);<br/>font-variant-alternates: ornaments(user-defined-ident);<br/>font-variant-alternates: annotation(user-defined-ident);<br/>font-variant-alternates: swash(ident1) annotation(ident2);<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>font-variant-alternates: inherit;<br/>font-variant-alternates: initial;<br/>font-variant-alternates: revert;<br/>font-variant-alternates: revert-layer;<br/>font-variant-alternates: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The {{cssxref(@font-feature-values)}} at-rule can define names for alternative glyph functions (`stylistic`, `styleset`, `character-variant`, `swash`, `ornament` or `annotation`), associating the name with OpenType parameters. This property allows those human-readable names (defined in {{cssxref(@font-feature-values)}}) in the stylesheet.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>This property may take one of two forms:<br/><br/>- either the keyword `normal`<br/>- or one or more of the other keywords and functions listed below, space-separated, in any order.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : This keyword deactivates alternate glyphs.<br/>- `historical-forms`<br/>  - : This keyword enables historical forms — glyphs that were common in the past but not today. It corresponds to the OpenType value `hist`.<br/>- `stylistic()`<br/>  - : This function enables stylistic alternates for individual characters. The parameter is a font-specific name mapped to a number. It corresponds to the OpenType value `salt`, like `salt 2`.<br/>- `styleset()`<br/>  - : This function enables stylistic alternatives for sets of characters. The parameter is a font-specific name mapped to a number. It corresponds to the OpenType value `ssXY`, like `ss02`.<br/>- `character-variant()`<br/>  - : This function enables specific stylistic alternatives for characters. It is similar to `styleset()`, but doesn't create coherent glyphs for a set of characters; individual characters will have independent and not necessarily coherent styles. The parameter is a font-specific name mapped to a number. It corresponds to the OpenType value `cvXY`, like `cv02`.<br/>- `swash()`<br/>  - : This function enables [swash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swash_%28typography%29) glyphs. The parameter is a font-specific name mapped to a number. It corresponds to the OpenType values `swsh` and `cswh`, like `swsh 2` and `cswh 2`.<br/>- `ornaments()`<br/><br/>  - : This function enables ornaments, like [fleurons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fleuron_%28typography%29) and other dingbat glyphs. The parameter is a font-specific name mapped to a number. It corresponds to the OpenType value `ornm`, like `ornm 2`.<br/><br/>    > **Note:** In order to preserve text semantics, font designers should include ornaments that don't match Unicode dingbat characters as ornamental variants of the bullet character (U+2022). Be aware that some existing fonts don't follow this advice.<br/><br/>- `annotation()`<br/>  - : This function enables annotations, like circled digits or inverted characters. The parameter is a font-specific name mapped to a number. It corresponds to the OpenType value `nalt`, like `nalt 2`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p>Firefox rocks!</p><br/><p class=variant>Firefox rocks!</p><br/>```<br/><br/>### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>@font-feature-values Leitura Display Swashes {<br/>    @swash { fancy: 1 }<br/>}<br/><br/>p {<br/>  font-size: 1.5rem;<br/>}<br/><br/>.variant {<br/>  font-family: Leitura Display Swashes;<br/>  font-variant-alternates: swash(fancy);<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### Result<br/><br/>> **Note:** You need to install the OpenType font _Leitura Display Swashes_ for this example to work. You can find a few free versions for testing purposes, for example from [fontsgeek.com](https://fontsgeek.com/fonts/Leitura-Display-Swashes).<br/><br/>{{ EmbedLiveSample('Examples', '', '', '', 'Web/CSS/font-variant-alternates') }}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>Not part of any standard.<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See Also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-numeric)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(@font-feature-values)}}<br/>