## ✔️ font-language-override 
 ---<br/>title: font-language-override<br/>slug: Web/CSS/font-language-override<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Fonts<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - font-language-override<br/>  - l10n<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.font-language-override<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`font-language-override`** CSS property controls the use of language-specific glyphs in a typeface.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword value */<br/>font-language-override: normal;<br/><br/>/* <string> values */<br/>font-language-override: ENG;  /* Use English glyphs */<br/>font-language-override: TRK;  /* Use Turkish glyphs */<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>font-language-override: inherit;<br/>font-language-override: initial;<br/>font-language-override: revert;<br/>font-language-override: revert-layer;<br/>font-language-override: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>By default, HTML's `lang` attribute tells browsers to display glyphs designed specifically for that language. For example, a lot of fonts have a special character for the digraph `fi` that merge the dot on the i with the f. However, if the language is set to Turkish the typeface will likely know not to use the merged glyph; Turkish has two versions of the i, one with a dot (`i`) and one without (`ı`), and using the ligature would incorrectly transform a dotted i into a dotless i.<br/><br/>The `font-language-override` property lets you override the typeface behavior for a specific language. This is useful, for example, when the typeface you're using lacks proper support for the language. For instance, if a typeface doesn't have proper rules for the Azeri language, you can force the font to use Turkish glyphs, which follow similar rules.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The `font-language-override` property is specified as the keyword `normal` or a `<string>`.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : Tells the browser to use font glyphs that are appropriate for the language specified by the `lang` attribute. This is the default value.<br/>- {{cssxref(string)}}<br/>  - : Tells the browser to use font glyphs that are appropriate for the language specified by the string. The string must match a language tag found in the [OpenType language system](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/typography/opentype/spec/languagetags). For example, ENG is English, and KOR is Korean.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Using Danish glyphs<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p class=para1>Default language setting.</p><br/><p class=para2>This is a string with the <code>font-language-override</code> set to Danish.</p><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>p.para1 {<br/>  font-language-override: normal;<br/>}<br/><br/>p.para2 {<br/>  font-language-override: DAN;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{ EmbedLiveSample('Using_Danish_glyphs', '600', '', '', 'Web/CSS/font-language-override') }}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-position)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-numeric)}}, {{cssxref(font-variant-alternates)}}, {{cssxref(font-synthesis)}}, {{cssxref(font-kerning)}}.<br/>