## ✔️ font-variant-position 
 ---<br/>title: font-variant-position<br/>slug: Web/CSS/font-variant-position<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Fonts<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.font-variant-position<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`font-variant-position`** CSS property controls the use of alternate, smaller glyphs that are positioned as superscript or subscript.<br/><br/>The glyphs are positioned relative to the baseline of the font, which remains unchanged. These glyphs are typically used in {{HTMLElement(sub)}} and {{HTMLElement(sup)}} elements.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>font-variant-position: normal;<br/>font-variant-position: sub;<br/>font-variant-position: super;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>font-variant-position: inherit;<br/>font-variant-position: initial;<br/>font-variant-position: revert;<br/>font-variant-position: revert-layer;<br/>font-variant-position: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>When the usage of these alternate glyphs is activated, if one character in the run doesn't have such a typographically-enhanced glyph, the whole set of characters of the run is rendered using a fallback method, synthesizing these glyphs.<br/><br/>These alternate glyphs share the same em-box and the same baseline as the rest of the font. They are merely graphically enhanced, and have no effect on the line-height and other box characteristics.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The `font-variant-position` property is specified as one of the keyword values listed below.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : Deactivates alternate superscript and subscript glyphs.<br/>- `sub`<br/>  - : Activates subscript alternate glyphs. If, in a given run, one such glyph is not available for a character, all the characters in the run are rendered using synthesized glyphs.<br/>- `super`<br/>  - : Activates superscript alternate glyphs. If, in a given run, one such glyph is not available for a character, all the characters in the run are rendered using synthesized glyphs.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting superscript and subscript forms<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p class=normal>Normal!</p><br/><p class=super>Super!</p><br/><p class=sub>Sub!</p><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>p {<br/>  display: inline;<br/>}<br/><br/>.normal {<br/>  font-variant-position: normal;<br/>}<br/><br/>.super {<br/>  font-variant-position: super;<br/>}<br/><br/>.sub {<br/>  font-variant-position: sub;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{ EmbedLiveSample('Setting_superscript_and_subscript_forms') }}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See Also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-alternates)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-numeric)}}<br/>