## ✔️ font-variant-numeric 
 ---<br/>title: font-variant-numeric<br/>slug: Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Fonts<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.font-variant-numeric<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`font-variant-numeric`** CSS property controls the usage of alternate glyphs for numbers, fractions, and ordinal markers.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/font-variant-numeric.html)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>font-variant-numeric: normal;<br/>font-variant-numeric: ordinal;<br/>font-variant-numeric: slashed-zero;<br/>font-variant-numeric: lining-nums;         /* <numeric-figure-values> */<br/>font-variant-numeric: oldstyle-nums;       /* <numeric-figure-values> */<br/>font-variant-numeric: proportional-nums;   /* <numeric-spacing-values> */<br/>font-variant-numeric: tabular-nums;        /* <numeric-spacing-values> */<br/>font-variant-numeric: diagonal-fractions;  /* <numeric-fraction-values> */<br/>font-variant-numeric: stacked-fractions;   /* <numeric-fraction-values> */<br/>font-variant-numeric: oldstyle-nums stacked-fractions;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>font-variant-numeric: inherit;<br/>font-variant-numeric: initial;<br/>font-variant-numeric: revert;<br/>font-variant-numeric: revert-layer;<br/>font-variant-numeric: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>This property can take one of two forms:<br/><br/>- either the keyword value `normal`<br/>- or one or more of the other values listed below, space-separated, in any order.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : This keyword leads to the deactivation of the use of such alternate glyphs.<br/>- `ordinal`<br/>  - : This keyword forces the use of special glyphs for the ordinal markers, like 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th in English or a 1a in Italian. It corresponds to the OpenType values `ordn`.<br/>- `slashed-zero`<br/>  - : This keyword forces the use of a 0 with a slash; this is useful when a clear distinction between O and 0 is needed. It corresponds to the OpenType values `zero`.<br/>- _\<numeric-figure-values_><br/><br/>  - : These values control the figures used for numbers. Two values are possible:<br/><br/>    - `lining-nums` activating the set of figures where numbers are all lying on the baseline. It corresponds to the OpenType values `lnum`.<br/>    - `oldstyle-nums` activating the set of figures where some numbers, like 3, 4, 7, 9 have descenders. It corresponds to the OpenType values `onum`.<br/><br/>- _\<numeric-spacing-values_><br/><br/>  - : These values controls the sizing of figures used for numbers. Two values are possible:<br/><br/>    - `proportional-nums` activating the set of figures where numbers are not all of the same size. It corresponds to the OpenType values `pnum`.<br/>    - `tabular-nums` activating the set of figures where numbers are all of the same size, allowing them to be easily aligned like in tables. It corresponds to the OpenType values `tnum`.<br/><br/>- _\<numeric-fraction-values_><br/><br/>  - : These values controls the glyphs used to display fractions. Two values are possible:<br/><br/>    - `diagonal-fractions` activating the set of figures where the numerator and denominator are made smaller and separated by a slash. It corresponds to the OpenType values `frac`.<br/>    - `stacked-fractions` activating the set of figures where the numerator and denominator are made smaller, stacked and separated by a horizontal line. It corresponds to the OpenType values `afrc`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting ordinal numeric forms<br/><br/>{{EmbedGHLiveSample(css-examples/font-features/font-variant-numeric-example.html, '100%', 600)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See Also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-alternates)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-caps)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-east-asian)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant-ligatures)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(font-variant)}}<br/>