## ✔️ grid-auto-rows 
 ---<br/>title: grid-auto-rows<br/>slug: Web/CSS/grid-auto-rows<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Grid<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.grid-auto-rows<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`grid-auto-rows`** CSS property specifies the size of an implicitly-created grid row {{glossary(grid tracks, track)}} or pattern of tracks.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/grid-auto-rows.html)}}<br/><br/>If a grid item is positioned into a row that is not explicitly sized by {{cssxref(grid-template-rows)}}, implicit {{glossary(grid, grid)}} tracks are created to hold it. This can happen either by explicitly positioning into a row that is out of range, or by the auto-placement algorithm creating additional rows.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: min-content;<br/>grid-auto-rows: max-content;<br/>grid-auto-rows: auto;<br/><br/>/* <length> values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: 100px;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 20cm;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 50vmax;<br/><br/>/* <percentage> values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: 10%;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 33.3%;<br/><br/>/* <flex> values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: 0.5fr;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 3fr;<br/><br/>/* minmax() values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: minmax(100px, auto);<br/>grid-auto-rows: minmax(max-content, 2fr);<br/>grid-auto-rows: minmax(20%, 80vmax);<br/><br/>/* multiple track-size values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: min-content max-content auto;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 100px 150px 390px;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 10% 33.3%;<br/>grid-auto-rows: 0.5fr 3fr 1fr;<br/>grid-auto-rows: minmax(100px, auto) minmax(max-content, 2fr) minmax(20%, 80vmax);<br/>grid-auto-rows: 100px minmax(100px, auto) 10% 0.5fr fit-content(400px);<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>grid-auto-rows: inherit;<br/>grid-auto-rows: initial;<br/>grid-auto-rows: revert;<br/>grid-auto-rows: revert-layer;<br/>grid-auto-rows: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}}<br/>  - : Is a non-negative length.<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}<br/>  - : Is a non-negative {{cssxref(percentage, &lt;percentage&gt;)}} value relative to the block size of the grid container. If the block size of the grid container is indefinite, the percentage value is treated like `auto`.<br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;flex&gt;)}}<br/><br/>  - : Is a non-negative dimension with the unit `fr` specifying the track's flex factor. Each `<flex>`-sized track takes a share of the remaining space in proportion to its flex factor.<br/><br/>    When appearing outside a `minmax()` notation, it implies an automatic minimum (i.e. `minmax(auto, <flex>)`).<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(max-content)}}<br/>  - : Is a keyword representing the largest maximal content contribution of the grid items occupying the grid track.<br/>- {{cssxref(min-content)}}<br/>  - : Is a keyword representing the largest minimal content contribution of the grid items occupying the grid track.<br/>- {{cssxref(minmax, minmax(min, max))}}<br/>  - : Is a functional notation that defines a size range greater than or equal to _min_ and less than or equal to _max_. If _max_ is smaller than _min_, then _max_ is ignored and the function is treated as _min_. As a maximum, a `<flex>` value sets the track's flex factor. As a minimum, it is treated as zero (or minimal content, if the grid container is sized under a minimal content constraint).<br/>- {{cssxref(fit-content_function, fit-content( [ &lt;length&gt; | &lt;percentage&gt; ] ))}}<br/>  - : Represents the formula `min(max-content, max(auto, argument))`, which is calculated similar to `auto` (i.e. `minmax(auto, max-content)`), except that the track size is clamped at _argument_ if it is greater than the `auto` minimum.<br/>- `auto`<br/><br/>  - : Is a keyword that is identical to maximal content if it's a maximum. As a minimum it represents the largest minimum size (as specified by {{cssxref(min-width)}}/{{cssxref(min-height)}}) of the grid items occupying the grid track.<br/><br/>    Note: `auto` track sizes (and only `auto` track sizes) can be stretched by the {{cssxref(align-content)}} and {{cssxref(justify-content)}} properties.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting grid row size<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div id=grid><br/>  <div id=item1></div><br/>  <div id=item2></div><br/>  <div id=item3></div><br/></div><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>#grid {<br/>  width: 200px;<br/>  display: grid;<br/>  grid-template-areas: a a;<br/>  gap: 10px;<br/>  grid-auto-rows: 100px;<br/>}<br/><br/>#grid > div {<br/>  background-color: lime;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Setting_grid_row_size, 210px, 210px)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- Related CSS properties: {{cssxref(grid-auto-columns)}}, {{cssxref(grid-auto-flow)}}, {{cssxref(grid)}}<br/>- Grid Layout Guide: _[Auto-placement in grid layout - sizing rows in the implicit grid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/Auto-placement_in_CSS_Grid_Layout#Sizing_rows_in_the_implicit_grid)_<br/>- Video tutorial: _[Introducing Grid auto-placement and order](https://gridbyexample.com/video/series-auto-placement-order/)_<br/>