## ✔️ hyphenate-character 
 ---<br/>title: hyphenate-character<br/>slug: Web/CSS/hyphenate-character<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.hyphenate-character<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`hyphenate-character`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the character (or string) used at the end of a line before a hyphenation break.<br/><br/>Both automatic and soft hyphens are displayed according to the specified hyphenate-character value.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The value either sets the string to use instead of a hyphen, or indicates that the user agent should select an appropriate string based on the current typographic conventions (default).<br/><br/>```css<br/>hyphenate-character: <string>;<br/>hyphenate-character: auto;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `<string>`<br/>  - : The {{cssxref(&lt;string&gt;)}} to use at the end of the line before a hyphenation break.<br/>    The user agent may truncate this value if too many characters are used.<br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : The user-agent selects an appropriate string based on the content language's typographic conventions.<br/>    This is the default property value, and only needs to be explicitly set in order to override a different inherited value.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>This example shows two identical blocks of text that have {{cssxref(hyphens)}} set to ensure that they break wherever needed, and on soft hyphen breaks (created using `&shy;`).<br/>The first block has the value of the hyphen changed to the equals symbol (`=`).<br/>The second block has no hyphenate-character set, which is equivalent to `hyphenate-character: auto` for user agents that support this property.<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><dl><br/>  <dt><code>hyphenate-character: =</code></dt><br/>  <dd id=string lang=en>Superc&shy;alifragilisticexpialidocious</dd><br/>  <dt><code>hyphenate-character is not set</code></dt><br/>  <dd lang=en>Superc&shy;alifragilisticexpialidocious</dd><br/></dl><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>dd {<br/>  width: 90px;<br/>  border: 1px solid black;<br/>  hyphens: auto;<br/>}<br/><br/>dd#string {<br/>  -webkit-hyphenate-character: =;<br/>  hyphenate-character: =;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Examples, 100%, 350)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- Related CSS properties: {{cssxref(hyphens)}}, {{cssxref(overflow-wrap)}}.<br/>