## ✔️ hyphens 
 ---<br/>title: hyphens<br/>slug: Web/CSS/hyphens<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Text<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.hyphens<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`hyphens`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies how words should be hyphenated when text wraps across multiple lines. It can prevent hyphenation entirely, hyphenate at manually-specified points within the text, or let the browser automatically insert hyphens where appropriate.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/hyphens.html)}}<br/><br/>> **Note:** In the above demo, the string An extraordinarily long English word! contains the hidden `&shy;` (soft hyphen) character: `An extra&shy;ordinarily long English word!`. This character is used to indicate a potential place to insert a hyphen when `hyphens: manual;` is specified.<br/><br/>Hyphenation rules are language-specific. In HTML, the language is determined by the [`lang`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/lang) attribute, and browsers will hyphenate only if this attribute is present and the appropriate hyphenation dictionary is available. In XML, the [`xml:lang`](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/xml:lang) attribute must be used.<br/><br/>> **Note:** The rules defining how hyphenation is performed are not explicitly defined by the specification, so the exact hyphenation may vary from browser to browser.<br/><br/>If supported, {{cssxref(hyphenate-character)}} may be used to specify an alternative hyphenation character to use at the end of the line being broken.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>hyphens: none;<br/>hyphens: manual;<br/>hyphens: auto;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>hyphens: inherit;<br/>hyphens: initial;<br/>hyphens: revert;<br/>hyphens: revert-layer;<br/>hyphens: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `hyphens` property is specified as a single keyword value chosen from the list below.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `none`<br/>  - : Words are not broken at line breaks, even if characters inside the words suggest line break points. Lines will only wrap at whitespace.<br/>- `manual`<br/>  - : Words are broken for line-wrapping only where characters inside the word suggest line break opportunities. See [Suggesting line break opportunities](#suggesting_line_break_opportunities) below for details.<br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : The browser is free to automatically break words at appropriate hyphenation points, following whatever rules it chooses. However, suggested line break opportunities (see [Suggesting line break opportunities](#suggesting_line_break_opportunities) below) will override automatic break point selection when present.<br/><br/>> **Note:** The `auto` setting's behavior depends on the language being properly tagged to select the appropriate hyphenation rules. You must specify a language using the `lang` HTML attribute to guarantee that automatic hyphenation is applied in that language.<br/><br/>## Suggesting line break opportunities<br/><br/>There are two Unicode characters used to manually specify potential line break points within text:<br/><br/>- U+2010 (HYPHEN)<br/>  - : The hard hyphen character indicates a visible line break opportunity. Even if the line is not actually broken at that point, the hyphen is still rendered.<br/>- U+00AD (SHY)<br/>  - : An invisible, **s**oft **hy**phen. This character is not rendered visibly; instead, it marks a place where the browser should break the word if hyphenation is necessary. In HTML, use `&shy;` to insert a soft hyphen.<br/><br/>> **Note:** When the HTML [`<wbr>`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/wbr) element leads to a line break, no hyphen is added.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Specifying text hyphenation<br/><br/>This example uses three classes, one for each possible configuration of the `hyphens` property.<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><dl><br/>  <dt><code>none</code>: no hyphen; overflow if needed</dt><br/>  <dd lang=en class=none>An extreme&shy;ly long English word</dd><br/>  <dt><code>manual</code>: hyphen only at &amp;hyphen; or &amp;shy; (if needed)</dt><br/>  <dd lang=en class=manual>An extreme&shy;ly long English word</dd><br/>  <dt><code>auto</code>: hyphens where the algorithm decides (if needed)</dt><br/>  <dd lang=en class=auto>An extreme&shy;ly long English word</dd><br/></dl><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>dd {<br/>  width: 55px;<br/>  border: 1px solid black;<br/> }<br/>dd.none {<br/>  -webkit-hyphens: none;<br/>  -ms-hyphens: none;<br/>  hyphens: none;<br/>}<br/>dd.manual {<br/>  -webkit-hyphens: manual;<br/>  -ms-hyphens: manual;<br/>  hyphens: manual;<br/>}<br/>dd.auto {<br/>  -webkit-hyphens: auto;<br/>  -ms-hyphens: auto;<br/>  hyphens: auto;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Specifying_text_hyphenation, 100%, 490)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(content)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(overflow-wrap)}} (formerly `word-wrap`)<br/>- {{cssxref(word-break)}}<br/>- [Guide to wrapping and breaking text](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Text/Wrapping_text)<br/>