## ✔️ inherit 
 ---<br/>title: inherit<br/>slug: Web/CSS/inherit<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Cascade<br/>  - CSS Value<br/>  - Cascade<br/>  - Inheritance<br/>  - Keyword<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Style<br/>  - inherit<br/>browser-compat: css.types.global_keywords.inherit<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`inherit`** CSS keyword causes the element to take the [computed value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/computed_value) of the property from its parent element. It can be applied to any CSS property, including the CSS shorthand property {{cssxref(all)}}.<br/><br/>For [inherited properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/inheritance#inherited_properties), this reinforces the default behavior, and is only needed to override another rule.<br/><br/>> **Note:** Inheritance is always from the parent element in the document tree, even when the parent element is not the containing block.<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Exclude selected elements from a rule<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Make second-level headers green */<br/>h2 { color: green; }<br/><br/>/* ...but leave those in the sidebar alone so they use their parent's color */<br/>#sidebar h2 { color: inherit; }<br/>```<br/><br/>In this example, the `h2` elements inside the sidebar might be different colors. For example, if one of them were the child of a `div` matched by the rule ...<br/><br/>```css<br/>div#current { color: blue; }<br/>```<br/><br/>... it would be blue.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Inheritance](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/inheritance)<br/>- Use the {{cssxref(initial)}} keyword to set a property to its initial value.<br/>- Use the {{cssxref(revert)}} keyword to reset a property to the value established by the user-agent stylesheet (or by user styles, if any exist).<br/>- Use the {{cssxref(revert-layer)}} keyword to reset a property to the value established in a previous cascade layer.<br/>- Use the {{cssxref(unset)}} keyword to set a property to its inherited value if it inherits or to its initial value if not.<br/>- The {{cssxref(all)}} property lets you reset all properties to their initial, inherited, reverted, or unset state at once.<br/>