## ✔️ inheritance 
 ---<br/>title: Inheritance<br/>slug: Web/CSS/inheritance<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Inheritance<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Web<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>In CSS, **inheritance** controls what happens when no value is specified for a property on an element.<br/><br/>CSS properties can be categorized in two types:<br/><br/>- **inherited properties**, which by default are set to the [computed value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/computed_value) of the parent element<br/>- **non-inherited properties**, which by default are set to [initial value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/initial_value) of the property<br/><br/>Refer to [any CSS property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference#keyword_index) definition to see whether a specific property inherits by default (Inherited: yes) or not (Inherited: no).<br/><br/>## Inherited properties<br/><br/>When no value for an **inherited property** has been specified on an element, the element gets the [computed value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/computed_value) of that property on its parent element. Only the root element of the document gets the [initial value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/initial_value) given in the property's summary.<br/><br/>A typical example of an inherited property is the {{ Cssxref(color) }} property. Given the style rules:<br/><br/>```css<br/>p { color: green; }<br/>```<br/><br/>... and the markup:<br/><br/>```html<br/><p>This paragraph has <em>emphasized text</em> in it.</p><br/>```<br/><br/>... the words emphasized text will appear green, since the `em` element has inherited the value of the {{ Cssxref(color) }} property from the `p` element. It does _not_ get the initial value of the property (which is the color that is used for the root element when the page specifies no color).<br/><br/>## Non-inherited properties<br/><br/>When no value for a **non-inherited property** has been specified on an element, the element gets the [initial value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/initial_value) of that property (as specified in the property's summary).<br/><br/>A typical example of a non-inherited property is the {{ Cssxref(border) }} property. Given the style rules:<br/><br/>```css<br/> p { border: medium solid; }<br/>```<br/><br/>... and the markup:<br/><br/>```html<br/>  <p>This paragraph has <em>emphasized text</em> in it.</p><br/>```<br/><br/>... the words emphasized text will not have a border (since the initial value of {{ Cssxref(border-style) }} is `none`).<br/><br/>## Notes<br/><br/>The {{ Cssxref(inherit) }} keyword allows authors to explicitly specify inheritance. It works on both inherited and non-inherited properties.<br/><br/>You can control inheritance for all properties at once using the {{cssxref(all)}} shorthand property, which applies its value to all properties. For example:<br/><br/>```css<br/>p {<br/>  all: revert;<br/>  font-size: 200%;<br/>  font-weight: bold;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>This reverts the style of the paragraphs' {{cssxref(font)}} property to the user agent's default unless a user stylesheet exists, in which case that is used instead. Then it doubles the font size and applies a {{cssxref(font-weight)}} of `bold`.<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- CSS values for controlling inheritance: {{ cssxref(inherit) }}, {{cssxref(initial)}}, {{cssxref(revert)}}, {{cssxref(revert-layer)}}, and {{cssxref(unset)}}<br/>- [Introducing the CSS cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Cascade)<br/>- [Cascade and inheritance](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Cascade_and_inheritance)<br/>- {{ CSS_key_concepts() }}<br/>