## ✔️ layout_mode 
 ---<br/>title: Layout mode<br/>slug: Web/CSS/Layout_mode<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>A [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) **layout mode**, sometimes called _layout_, is an algorithm that determines the position and size of boxes based on the way they interact with their sibling and ancestor boxes. There are several of them:<br/><br/>- _[Normal flow](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flow_Layout)_ — all elements are part of normal flow until you do something to take them out of it. Normal flow includes _block layout_, designed for laying out boxes such as paragraphs and _inline layout_, which lays out inline items such as text.<br/>- [_Table layout_](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Table), designed for laying out tables.<br/>- _Float layout_, designed to cause an item to position itself left or right with the rest of the content in normal flow wrapping around it.<br/>- [_Positioned layout_](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Positioning), designed for positioning elements without much interaction with other elements.<br/>- [_Multi-column layout_](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns), designed for laying content out in columns as in a newspaper.<br/>- [_Flexible box layout_](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout), designed for laying out complex pages that can be resized smoothly.<br/>- [_Grid layout_](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout), designed for laying out elements relative to a fixed grid.<br/><br/>> **Note:** Not all [CSS properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference) apply to all _layout modes_. Most of them apply to one or two of them and have no effect if they are set on an element participating in another layout mode.<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{CSS_key_concepts}}<br/>