## ✔️ mask-origin 
 ---<br/>title: mask-origin<br/>slug: Web/CSS/mask-origin<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Masking<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.mask-origin<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`mask-origin`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the origin of a mask.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>mask-origin: content-box;<br/>mask-origin: padding-box;<br/>mask-origin: border-box;<br/>mask-origin: margin-box;<br/>mask-origin: fill-box;<br/>mask-origin: stroke-box;<br/>mask-origin: view-box;<br/><br/>/* Multiple values */<br/>mask-origin: padding-box, content-box;<br/>mask-origin: view-box, fill-box, border-box;<br/><br/>/* Non-standard keyword values */<br/>-webkit-mask-origin: content;<br/>-webkit-mask-origin: padding;<br/>-webkit-mask-origin: border;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>mask-origin: inherit;<br/>mask-origin: initial;<br/>mask-origin: revert;<br/>mask-origin: revert-layer;<br/>mask-origin: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>For elements rendered as a single box, this property specifies the mask positioning area. In other words, this property specifies the origin position of an image specified by the {{cssxref(mask-image)}} CSS property. For elements rendered as multiple boxes, such as inline boxes on several lines or boxes on several pages, it specifies which boxes {{cssxref(box-decoration-break)}} operates upon to determine the mask positioning area.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>One or more of the keyword values listed below, separated by commas.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `content-box`<br/>  - : The position is relative to the content box.<br/>- `padding-box`<br/>  - : The position is relative to the padding box. For single boxes `0 0` is the upper left corner of the padding edge, `100% 100%` is the lower right corner.<br/>- `border-box`<br/>  - : The position is relative to the border box.<br/>- `margin-box`<br/>  - : The position is relative to the margin box.<br/>- `fill-box`<br/>  - : The position is relative to the object bounding box.<br/>- `stroke-box`<br/>  - : The position is relative to the stroke bounding box.<br/>- `view-box`<br/>  - : Uses the nearest SVG viewport as reference box. If a {{svgattr(viewBox)}} attribute is specified for the element creating the SVG viewport, the reference box is positioned at the origin of the coordinate system established by the `viewBox` attribute and the dimension of the reference box is set to the width and height values of the `viewBox` attribute.<br/>- `content` {{non-standard_inline}}<br/>  - : Same as `content-box`.<br/>- `padding` {{non-standard_inline}}<br/>  - : Same as `padding-box`.<br/>- `border` {{non-standard_inline}}<br/>  - : Same as `border-box`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting mask origin to border-box<br/><br/>Try some of the other possible values by updating the CSS in the box below.<br/><br/>{{EmbedGHLiveSample(css-examples/masking/mask-origin.html, '100%', 600)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Clipping and Masking in CSS](https://css-tricks.com/clipping-masking-css/)<br/>