## ✔️ mask-border-width 
 ---<br/>title: mask-border-width<br/>slug: Web/CSS/mask-border-width<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Masking<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - NeedsCompatTable<br/>  - NeedsExample<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.mask-border-width<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`mask-border-width`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the width of an element's [mask border](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/mask-border).<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword value */<br/>mask-border-width: auto;<br/><br/>/* <length> value */<br/>mask-border-width: 1rem;<br/><br/>/* <percentage> value */<br/>mask-border-width: 25%;<br/><br/>/* <number> value */<br/>mask-border-width: 3;<br/><br/>/* vertical | horizontal */<br/>mask-border-width: 2em 3em;<br/><br/>/* top | horizontal | bottom */<br/>mask-border-width: 5% 15% 10%;<br/><br/>/* top | right | bottom | left */<br/>mask-border-width: 5% 2em 10% auto;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>mask-border-width: inherit;<br/>mask-border-width: initial;<br/>mask-border-width: revert;<br/>mask-border-width: revert-layer;<br/>mask-border-width: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `mask-border-width` property may be specified using one, two, three, or four values chosen from the list of values below.<br/><br/>- When **one** value is specified, it applies the same width to **all four sides**.<br/>- When **two** values are specified, the first width applies to the **top and bottom**, the second to the **left and right**.<br/>- When **three** values are specified, the first width applies to the **top**, the second to the **left and right**, the third to the **bottom**.<br/>- When **four** values are specified, the widths apply to the **top**, **right**, **bottom**, and **left** in that order (clockwise).<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `<length-percentage>`<br/>  - : The width of the mask border, specified as a {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}} or a {{cssxref(&lt;percentage&gt;)}}. Percentages are relative to the _width_ of the border area for horizontal offsets and the _height_ of the border area for vertical offsets. Must not be negative.<br/>- `<number>`<br/>  - : The width of the mask border, specified as a multiple of the corresponding {{cssxref(border-width)}}. Must not be negative.<br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : The width of the mask border is made equal to the intrinsic width or height (whichever is applicable) of the corresponding {{cssxref(mask-border-slice)}}. If the image does not have the required intrinsic dimension, the corresponding `border-width` is used instead.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Basic usage<br/><br/>This property doesn't appear to be supported anywhere yet. When it eventually starts to be supported, it will serve to define the width of the border mask — setting this to a different value to [`mask-border-slice`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/mask-border-slice) will cause the slices to be scaled to fit the border mask.<br/><br/>```css<br/>mask-border-width: 30 fill;<br/>```<br/><br/>Chromium-based browsers support an outdated version of this property — `mask-box-image-width` — with a prefix:<br/><br/>```css<br/>-webkit-mask-box-image-width: 20px;<br/>```<br/><br/>> **Note:** The [`mask-border`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/mask-border) page features a working example (using the out-of-date prefixed border mask properties supported in Chromium), so you can get an idea of the effect.<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(mask-border)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(mask-border-mode)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(mask-border-outset)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(mask-border-repeat)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(mask-border-source)}}<br/>