## ✔️ outline 
 ---<br/>title: outline<br/>slug: Web/CSS/outline<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Outline<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-shorthand-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.outline<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`outline`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) sets most of the outline properties in a single declaration.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/outline.html)}}<br/><br/>## Constituent properties<br/><br/>This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(outline-color)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(outline-style)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(outline-width)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* style */<br/>outline: solid;<br/><br/>/* color | style */<br/>outline: #f66 dashed;<br/><br/>/* style | width */<br/>outline: inset thick;<br/><br/>/* color | style | width */<br/>outline: green solid 3px;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>outline: inherit;<br/>outline: initial;<br/>outline: revert;<br/>outline: revert-layer;<br/>outline: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `outline` property may be specified using one, two, or three of the values listed below. The order of the values does not matter. As with all shorthand properties, any omitted sub-values will be set to their [initial value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/initial_value).<br/><br/>> **Note:** The outline will be invisible for many elements if its style is not defined. This is because the style defaults to `none`. A notable exception is `input` elements, which are given default styling by browsers.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `<'outline-color'>`<br/>  - : Sets the color of the outline. Defaults to `invert` for browsers supporting it, `currentcolor` for the others. See {{cssxref(outline-color)}}.<br/>- `<'outline-style'>`<br/>  - : Sets the style of the outline. Defaults to `none` if absent. See {{cssxref(outline-style)}}.<br/>- `<'outline-width'>`<br/>  - : Sets the thickness of the outline. Defaults to `medium` if absent. See {{cssxref(outline-width)}}.<br/><br/>## Description<br/><br/>Outline is a line outside of the element's [border](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border). Unlike other areas of the box, outlines don't take up space, so they don't affect the layout of the document in any way.<br/><br/>There are a few properties that affect an outline's appearance. It is possible to change the style, color, and width using the `outline` property, the distance from the border using the {{cssxref(outline-offset)}} property, and corner angles using the  {{cssxref(border-radius)}} property.<br/><br/>An outline is not required to be rectangular: While dealing with multiline text, some browsers will draw an outline for each line box separately, while others will wrap the whole text with a single outline.<br/><br/>## Accessibility concerns<br/><br/>Assigning `outline` a value of `0` or `none` will remove the browser's default focus style. If an element can be interacted with it must have a visible focus indicator. Provide obvious focus styling if the default focus style is removed.<br/><br/>- [How to Design Useful and Usable Focus Indicators](https://www.deque.com/blog/give-site-focus-tips-designing-usable-focus-indicators/)<br/>- WCAG 2.1: [Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7: Focus Visible](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/focus-visible.html)<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Using outline to set a focus style<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><a href=#>This link has a special focus style.</a><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>a {<br/>  border: 1px solid;<br/>  border-radius: 3px;<br/>  display: inline-block;<br/>  margin: 10px;<br/>  padding: 5px;<br/>}<br/><br/>a:focus {<br/>  outline: 4px dotted #e73;<br/>  outline-offset: 4px;<br/>  background: #ffa;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Using_outline_to_set_a_focus_style, 100%, 85)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(outline-color)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(outline-style)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(outline-width)}}<br/>