## ✔️ page-break-before 
 ---<br/>title: page-break-before<br/>slug: Web/CSS/page-break-before<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Page Breaks<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.page-break-before<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>> **Warning:** This property has been replaced by the {{cssxref(break-before)}} property.<br/><br/>The **`page-break-before`** CSS property adjusts page breaks _before_ the current element.<br/><br/>This property applies to block elements that generate a box. It won't apply on an empty {{ HTMLElement(div) }} that won't generate a box.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>page-break-before: auto;<br/>page-break-before: always;<br/>page-break-before: avoid;<br/>page-break-before: left;<br/>page-break-before: right;<br/>page-break-before: recto;<br/>page-break-before: verso;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>page-break-before: inherit;<br/>page-break-before: initial;<br/>page-break-before: revert;<br/>page-break-before: revert-layer;<br/>page-break-before: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : Initial value. Automatic page breaks (neither forced nor forbidden).<br/>- `always`<br/>  - : Always force page breaks before the element.<br/>- `avoid`<br/>  - : Avoid page breaks before the element.<br/>- `left`<br/>  - : Force page breaks before the element so that the next page is formatted as a left page. It's the page placed on the left side of the spine of the book or the back side of the page in duplex printing.<br/>- `right`<br/>  - : Force page breaks before the element so that the next page is formatted as a right page. It's the page placed on the right side of the spine of the book or the front side of the page in duplex printing.<br/>- `recto` {{experimental_inline}}<br/>  - : If pages progress left-to-right, then this acts like `right`. If pages progress right-to-left, then this acts like `left`.<br/>- `verso` {{experimental_inline}}<br/>  - : If pages progress left-to-right, then this acts like `left`. If pages progress right-to-left, then this acts like `right`.<br/><br/>## Page break aliases<br/><br/>The `page-break-before` property is now a legacy property, replaced by {{cssxref(break-before)}}.<br/><br/>For compatibility reasons, `page-break-before` should be treated by browsers as an alias of `break-before`. This ensures that sites using `page-break-before` continue to work as designed. A subset of values should be aliased as follows:<br/><br/>| page-break-before | break-before |<br/>| ----------------- | ------------ |<br/>| `auto`            | `auto`       |<br/>| `left`            | `left`       |<br/>| `right`           | `right`      |<br/>| `avoid`           | `avoid`      |<br/>| `always`          | `page`       |<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Avoid a page break before an element<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* avoid page break before div elements of class note */<br/>div.note {<br/>    page-break-before: avoid;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(break-before)}}, {{cssxref(break-after)}}, {{cssxref(break-inside)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(page-break-after)}}, {{cssxref(page-break-inside)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(orphans)}}, {{cssxref(widows)}}<br/>