## ✔️ percentage 
 ---<br/>title: <percentage><br/>slug: Web/CSS/percentage<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Data Type<br/>  - Data Type<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Web<br/>browser-compat: css.types.percentage<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`<percentage>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) represents a percentage value. It is often used to define a size as relative to an element's parent object. Numerous properties can use percentages, such as {{CSSxRef(width)}}, {{CSSxRef(height)}}, {{CSSxRef(margin)}}, {{CSSxRef(padding)}}, and {{CSSxRef(font-size)}}.<br/><br/>> **Note:** Only calculated values can be inherited. Thus, even if a percentage value is used on the parent property, a real value (such as a width in pixels for a {{CSSxRef(&lt;length&gt;)}} value) will be accessible on the inherited property, not the percentage value.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The `<percentage>` data type consists of a {{CSSxRef(&lt;number&gt;)}} followed by the percentage sign (`%`). Optionally, it may be preceded by a single `+` or `-` sign, although negative values are not valid for all properties. As with all CSS dimensions, there is no space between the symbol and the number.<br/><br/>## Interpolation<br/><br/>When animated, values of the `<percentage>` data type are {{Glossary(interpolation, interpolated)}} as real, floating-point numbers. The speed of the interpolation is determined by the [timing function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/easing-function) associated with the animation.<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Width and margin-left<br/><br/>```html<br/><div style=background-color:navy;><br/>  <div style=width:50%; margin-left:20%; background-color:chartreuse;><br/>    Width: 50%, Left margin: 20%<br/>  </div><br/>  <div style=width:30%; margin-left:60%; background-color:pink;><br/>    Width: 30%, Left margin: 60%<br/>  </div><br/></div><br/>```<br/><br/>The above HTML will output:<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Width_and_margin-left', '600', 140)}}<br/><br/>### Font-size<br/><br/>```html<br/><div style=font-size:18px;><br/>  <p>Full-size text (18px)</p><br/>  <p><span style=font-size:50%;>50% (9px)</span></p><br/>  <p><span style=font-size:200%;>200% (36px)</span></p><br/></div><br/>```<br/><br/>The above HTML will output:<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Font-size', 'auto', 160)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(&lt;length-percentage&gt;)}}<br/>- [CSS Values and Units](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units)<br/>