## ✔️ perspective-origin 
 ---<br/>title: perspective-origin<br/>slug: Web/CSS/perspective-origin<br/>tags:<br/>  - 3D<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Transforms<br/>  - Graphics<br/>  - Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Transforms<br/>  - perspective<br/>  - perspective-origin<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.perspective-origin<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`perspective-origin`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property determines the position at which the viewer is looking. It is used as the _vanishing point_ by the {{cssxref(perspective)}} property.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/perspective-origin.html)}}<br/><br/>The **`perspective-origin`** and {{cssxref('perspective')}} properties are attached to the parent of a child transformed in 3-dimensional space, unlike the [`perspective()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-function/perspective()) transform function which is placed on the element being transformed.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* One-value syntax */<br/>perspective-origin: x-position;<br/><br/>/* Two-value syntax */<br/>perspective-origin: x-position y-position;<br/><br/>/* When both x-position and y-position are keywords,<br/>   the following is also valid */<br/>perspective-origin: y-position x-position;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>perspective-origin: inherit;<br/>perspective-origin: initial;<br/>perspective-origin: revert;<br/>perspective-origin: revert-layer;<br/>perspective-origin: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- _x-position_<br/><br/>  - : Indicates the position of the abscissa of the _vanishing point_. It can have one of the following values:<br/><br/>    - {{cssxref(&lt;length-percentage&gt;)}} indicating the position as an absolute length value or relative to the width of the element. The value may be negative.<br/>    - `left`, a keyword being a shortcut for the `0` length value.<br/>    - `center`, a keyword being a shortcut for the `50%` percentage value.<br/>    - `right`, a keyword being a shortcut for the `100%` percentage value.<br/><br/>- _y-position_<br/><br/>  - : Indicates the position of the ordinate of the _vanishing point_. It can have one of the following values:<br/><br/>    - {{cssxref(&lt;length-percentage&gt;)}} indicating the position as an absolute length value or relative to the height of the element. The value may be negative.<br/>    - `top`, a keyword being a shortcut for the `0` length value.<br/>    - `center`, a keyword being a shortcut for the `50%` percentage value.<br/>    - `bottom`, a keyword being a shortcut for the `100%` percentage value.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Changing the perspective origin<br/><br/>An example showing how to change `perspective-origin` is given in [Using CSS transforms > Changing the perspective origin](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Transforms/Using_CSS_transforms#changing_the_perspective_origin).<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Using CSS Transforms](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Transforms/Using_CSS_transforms)<br/>- {{cssxref('transform-style')}}<br/>- {{cssxref('transform-function')}}<br/>- {{cssxref('perspective')}}<br/>- [`transform: perspective()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform-function/perspective()) function<br/>