## ✔️ perspective 
 ---<br/>title: perspective<br/>slug: Web/CSS/perspective<br/>tags:<br/>  - 3D<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Transforms<br/>  - Distance<br/>  - Graphics<br/>  - Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - perspective<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.perspective<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`perspective`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property determines the distance between the z=0 plane and the user in order to give a 3D-positioned element some perspective.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/perspective.html)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword value */<br/>perspective: none;<br/><br/>/* <length> values */<br/>perspective: 20px;<br/>perspective: 3.5em;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>perspective: inherit;<br/>perspective: initial;<br/>perspective: revert;<br/>perspective: revert-layer;<br/>perspective: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `none`<br/>  - : Indicates that no perspective transform is to be applied.<br/>- `<length>`<br/>  - : A {{cssxref(&lt;length&gt;)}} giving the distance from the user to the z=0 plane. It is used to apply a perspective transform to the children of the element.  Negative values are syntax errors.  If the value is smaller than `1px`, it is clamped to `1px`.<br/><br/>## Description<br/><br/>Each 3D element with z>0 becomes larger; each 3D-element with z<0 becomes smaller. The strength of the effect is determined by the value of this property.<br/>Large values of `perspective` cause a small transformation;<br/>small values of `perspective` cause a large transformation.<br/><br/>The parts of the 3D elements that are behind the user — i.e. their z-axis coordinates are greater than the value of the `perspective` CSS property — are not drawn.<br/><br/>The _vanishing point_ is by default placed at the center of the element, but its position can be changed using the {{cssxref(perspective-origin)}} property.<br/><br/>Using this property with a value other than `none` creates a new [stacking context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Positioning/Understanding_z_index/The_stacking_context). Also, in that case, the object will act as a containing block for `position: fixed` elements that it contains.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Setting perspective<br/><br/>An example showing how a cube varies if the `perspective` is set at different positions is given in [Using CSS transforms > Setting perspective](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Transforms/Using_CSS_transforms#setting_perspective).<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Using CSS Transforms](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Transforms/Using_CSS_transforms)<br/>