## ✔️ print-color-adjust 
 ---<br/>title: print-color-adjust<br/>slug: Web/CSS/print-color-adjust<br/>tags:<br/>  - Adjusting Colors<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Colors<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - HTML Colors<br/>  - HTML Styles<br/>  - Layout<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Styling HTML<br/>  - Styling text<br/>  - print-color-adjust<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.print-color-adjust<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`print-color-adjust`** CSS property sets what, if anything, the {{Glossary(user agent)}} may do to optimize the appearance of the element on the output device.<br/>By default, the browser is allowed to make any adjustments to the element's appearance it determines to be necessary and prudent given the type and capabilities of the output device.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>print-color-adjust: economy;<br/>print-color-adjust: exact;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>print-color-adjust: inherit;<br/>print-color-adjust: initial;<br/>print-color-adjust: revert;<br/>print-color-adjust: revert-layer;<br/>print-color-adjust: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `print-color-adjust` property's value must be one of the following keywords.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `economy`<br/>  - : The user agent is allowed to make adjustments to the element as it deems appropriate and prudent in order to optimize the output for the device it's being rendered for.<br/>    For example, when printing, a browser might opt to leave out all background images and to adjust text colors to be sure the contrast is optimized for reading on white paper.<br/>    This is the default.<br/>- **`exact`**<br/>  - : The element's content has been specifically and carefully crafted to use colors, images, and styles in a thoughtful and/or important way, such that being altered by the browser might actually make things worse rather than better.<br/>    The appearance of the content should not be changed except by the user's request.<br/>    For example, a page might include a list of information with rows whose background colors alternate between white and a light grey.<br/>    Removing the background color would decrease the legibility of the content.<br/><br/>## Usage notes<br/><br/>There are a number of reasons a browser might wish to deviate from the specified appearance, such as:<br/><br/>- The content uses text and background colors that will be too similar on the output device for legibility purposes.<br/>- If the output device is a printer, and to save ink, dark or extremely dense background images might be removed.<br/>- When printing a page, the browser might want to replace light-colored text on a dark background with dark text on a white background.<br/><br/>Any options the user agent offers the user to allow them to control the use of color and images will take priority over the value of `print-color-adjust`.<br/>In other words, there isn't any guarantee that `print-color-adjust` will do anything.<br/>Not only can the user override the behavior, but each user agent is allowed to decide for itself how to handle `print-color-adjust` in any given situation.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{cssinfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Preserving low contrast<br/><br/>In this example, a box is shown which uses a {{cssxref(background-image)}} and a translucent {{cssxref(gradient/linear-gradient, linear-gradient())}} function atop a black background color to have a dark blue gradient behind medium red text.<br/>For whatever reason, this is the desired appearance in any rendering environment, including on paper, so we also use `print-color-adjust: exact` to tell the browser not to make color or style adjustments to the box when rendering it.<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>.my-box {<br/>  background-color: black;<br/>  background-image: linear-gradient(rgba(0, 0, 180, 0.5), rgba(70, 140, 220, 0.5));<br/>  color: #900;<br/>  width: 15rem;<br/>  height: 6rem;<br/>  text-align: center;<br/>  font: 24px Helvetica, sans-serif;<br/>  display: flex;<br/>  align-items: center;<br/>  justify-content: center;<br/>  print-color-adjust: exact;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=my-box><br/>  <p>Need more contrast!</p><br/></div><br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(Preserving_low_contrast, 640, 120)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Applying color to HTML elements using CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Applying_color)<br/>- Other color-related properties: {{cssxref(color)}}, {{cssxref(background-color)}}, {{cssxref(border-color)}}, {{cssxref(outline-color)}}, {{cssxref(text-decoration-color)}}, {{cssxref(text-emphasis-color)}}, {{cssxref(text-shadow)}}, {{cssxref(caret-color)}}, and {{cssxref(column-rule-color)}}<br/>- {{cssxref(background-image)}}<br/>