## ✔️ pseudo-classes 
 ---<br/>title: Pseudo-classes<br/>slug: Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - Guide<br/>  - Overview<br/>  - Pseudo-class<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - Selectors<br/>spec-urls:<br/>  - https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/#pseudo-classes<br/>  - https://drafts.csswg.org/selectors/<br/>  - https://drafts.csswg.org/css-ui/<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>A [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) **_pseudo-class_** is a keyword added to a selector that specifies a special state of the selected element(s). For example, {{CSSxRef(:hover)}} can be used to change a button's color when the user's pointer hovers over it.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Any button over which the user's pointer is hovering */<br/>button:hover {<br/>  color: blue;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>Pseudo-classes let you apply a style to an element not only in relation to the content of the document tree, but also in relation to external factors like the history of the navigator ({{CSSxRef(:visited)}}, for example), the status of its content (like {{CSSxRef(:checked)}} on certain form elements), or the position of the mouse (like {{CSSxRef(:hover)}}, which lets you know if the mouse is over an element or not).<br/><br/>> **Note:** In contrast to pseudo-classes, [pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) can be used to style a _specific part_ of an element.<br/><br/>## Linguistic pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes reflect the document language, and enable the selection of elements based on language or script direction.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:dir)}}<br/>  - : The directionality pseudo-class selects an element based on its directionality as determined by the document language.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:lang)}}<br/>  - : Select an element based on its content language.<br/><br/>## Location pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes relate to links, and to targeted elements within the current document.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:any-link)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element if the element would match either {{CSSxRef(:link)}} or {{CSSxRef(:visited)}}.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:link)}}<br/>  - : Matches links that have not yet been visited.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:visited)}}<br/>  - : Matches links that have been visited.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:local-link)}}<br/>  - : Matches links whose absolute URL is the same as the target URL, for example anchor links to the same page.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:target)}}<br/>  - : Matches the element which is the target of the document URL.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:target-within)}}<br/>  - : Matches elements which are the target of the document URL, but also elements which have a descendant which is the target of the document URL.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:scope)}}<br/>  - : Represents elements that are a reference point for selectors to match against.<br/><br/>## User action pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes require some interaction by the user in order for them to apply, such as holding a mouse pointer over an element.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:hover)}}<br/>  - : Matches when a user designates an item with a pointing device, for example holding the mouse pointer over it.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:active)}}<br/>  - : Matches when an item is being activated by the user, for example clicked on.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:focus)}}<br/>  - : Matches when an element has focus.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:focus-visible)}}<br/>  - : Matches when an element has focus and the user agent identifies that the element should be visibly focused.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:focus-within)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element to which {{CSSxRef(:focus)}} applies, plus any element that has a descendant to which {{CSSxRef(:focus)}} applies.<br/><br/>## Time-dimensional pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes apply when viewing something which has timing, such as a [WebVTT](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebVTT_API) caption track.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:current)}}<br/>  - : Represents the element or ancestor of the element that is being displayed.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:past)}}<br/>  - : Represents an element that occurs entirely before the {{CSSxRef(:current)}} element.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:future)}}<br/>  - : Represents an element that occurs entirely after the {{CSSxRef(:current)}} element.<br/><br/>## Resource state pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes apply to media that is capable of being in a state where it would be described as playing, such as a video.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:playing)}}<br/>  - : Represents a media element that is capable of playing when that element is playing.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:paused)}}<br/>  - : Represents a media element that is capable of playing when that element is paused.<br/><br/>## The input pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes relate to form elements, and enable selecting elements based on HTML attributes and the state that the field is in before and after interaction.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:autofill)}}<br/>  - : Matches when an {{htmlelement(input)}} has been autofilled by the browser.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:enabled)}}<br/>  - : Represents a user interface element that is in an enabled state.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:disabled)}}<br/>  - : Represents a user interface element that is in a disabled state.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:read-only)}}<br/>  - : Represents any element that cannot be changed by the user.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:read-write)}}<br/>  - : Represents any element that is user-editable.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:placeholder-shown)}}<br/>  - : Matches an input element that is displaying placeholder text, for example from the HTML5 `placeholder` attribute.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:default)}}<br/>  - : Matches one or more UI elements that are the default among a set of elements.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:checked)}}<br/>  - : Matches when elements such as checkboxes and radiobuttons are toggled on.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:indeterminate)}}<br/>  - : Matches when UI elements are in an indeterminate state.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:blank)}}<br/>  - : Matches a user-input element which is empty, containing an empty string or other null input.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:valid)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element with valid contents. For example an input element with type 'email' which contains a validly formed email address.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:invalid)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element with invalid contents. For example an input element with type 'email' with a name entered.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:in-range)}}<br/>  - : Applies to elements with range limitations, for example a slider control, when the selected value is in the allowed range.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:out-of-range)}}<br/>  - : Applies to elements with range limitations, for example a slider control, when the selected value is outside the allowed range.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:required)}}<br/>  - : Matches when a form element is required.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:optional)}}<br/>  - : Matches when a form element is optional.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:user-invalid)}}<br/>  - : Represents an element with incorrect input, but only when the user has interacted with it.<br/><br/>## Tree-structural pseudo-classes<br/><br/>These pseudo-classes relate to the location of an element within the document tree.<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:root)}}<br/>  - : Represents an element that is the root of the document. In HTML this is usually the `<html>` element.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:empty)}}<br/>  - : Represents an element with no children other than white-space characters.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-child)}}<br/>  - : Uses A*n*+B notation to select elements from a list of sibling elements.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-last-child)}}<br/>  - : Uses A*n*+B notation to select elements from a list of sibling elements, counting backwards from the end of the list.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:first-child)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element that is the first of its siblings.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:last-child)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element that is the last of its siblings.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:only-child)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element that has no siblings. For example a list item with no other list items in that list.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-of-type)}}<br/>  - : Uses A*n*+B notation to select elements from a list of sibling elements that match a certain type from a list of sibling elements.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-last-of-type)}}<br/>  - : Uses A*n*+B notation to select elements from a list of sibling elements that match a certain type from a list of sibling elements counting backwards from the end of the list.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:first-of-type)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element that is the first of its siblings, and also matches a certain type selector.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:last-of-type)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element that is the last of its siblings, and also matches a certain type selector.<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:only-of-type)}}<br/>  - : Matches an element that has no siblings of the chosen type selector.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>selector:pseudo-class {<br/>  property: value;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>Like regular classes, you can chain together as many pseudo-classes as you want in a selector.<br/><br/>## Alphabetical index<br/><br/>Pseudo-classes defined by a set of CSS specifications include the following:<br/><br/>A<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:active)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:any-link)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:autofill)}}<br/><br/>B<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:blank)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>C<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:checked)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:current)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>D<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:default)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:defined)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:dir, :dir())}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:disabled)}}<br/><br/>E<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:empty)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:enabled)}}<br/><br/>F<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:first)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:first-child)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:first-of-type)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:fullscreen)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:future)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:focus)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:focus-visible)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:focus-within)}}<br/><br/>H<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:has, :has())}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:host)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:host, :host())}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:host-context, :host-context())}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:hover)}}<br/><br/>I<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:indeterminate)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:in-range)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:invalid)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:is, :is())}}<br/><br/>L<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:lang, :lang())}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:last-child)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:last-of-type)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:left)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:link)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:local-link)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>N<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:not, :not())}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-child, :nth-child())}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-col, :nth-col())}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-last-child, :nth-last-child())}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-last-col, :nth-last-col())}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-last-of-type, :nth-last-of-type())}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:nth-of-type, :nth-of-type())}}<br/><br/>O<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:only-child)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:only-of-type)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:optional)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:out-of-range)}}<br/><br/>P<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:past)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:picture-in-picture)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:placeholder-shown)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:paused)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:playing)}}<br/><br/>R<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:read-only)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:read-write)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:required)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:right)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:root)}}<br/><br/>S<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:scope)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:state, :state())}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>T<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:target)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:target-within)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>U<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:user-invalid)}} {{Experimental_Inline}}<br/><br/>V<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:valid)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(:visited)}}<br/><br/>W<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(:where, :where())}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- [Pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements)<br/>