## ✔️ text-underline-position 
 ---<br/>title: text-underline-position<br/>slug: Web/CSS/text-underline-position<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Text Decoration<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.text-underline-position<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`text-underline-position`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies the position of the underline which is set using the {{cssxref(text-decoration)}} property's `underline` value.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/text-underline-position.html)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Single keyword */<br/>text-underline-position: auto;<br/>text-underline-position: under;<br/>text-underline-position: left;<br/>text-underline-position: right;<br/><br/>/* Multiple keywords */<br/>text-underline-position: under left;<br/>text-underline-position: right under;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>text-underline-position: inherit;<br/>text-underline-position: initial;<br/>text-underline-position: revert;<br/>text-underline-position: revert-layer;<br/>text-underline-position: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : The {{glossary(user agent)}} uses its own algorithm to place the line at or under the alphabetic baseline.<br/>- `from-font`<br/>  - : If the font file includes information about a preferred position, use that value. If the font file doesn't include this information, behave as if `auto` was set, with the browser choosing an appropriate position.<br/>- `under`<br/>  - : Forces the line to be set below the alphabetic baseline, at a position where it won't cross any descenders. This is useful for ensuring legibility with chemical and mathematical formulas, which make a large use of subscripts.<br/>- `left`<br/>  - : In vertical writing-modes, this keyword forces the line to be placed on the _left_ side of the text. In horizontal writing-modes, it is a synonym of `under`.<br/>- `right`<br/>  - : In vertical writing-modes, this keyword forces the line to be placed on the _right_ side of the text. In horizontal writing-modes, it is a synonym of `under`.<br/>- `auto-pos` {{non-standard_inline}}<br/>  - : A synonym of `auto`, which should be used instead.<br/>- `above` {{non-standard_inline}}<br/>  - : Forces the line to be above the text. When used with East-Asian text, using the `auto` keyword will lead to a similar effect.<br/>- `below` {{non-standard_inline}}<br/>  - : Forces the line to be below the text. When used with alphabetic text, using the `auto` keyword will lead to a similar effect.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### A simple example<br/><br/>Let's take a couple of simple example paragraphs:<br/><br/>```html<br/><p class=horizontal>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.<br/>Nullam consectetur ac turpis vel laoreet. Nullam volutpat pharetra lorem, sit<br/>amet feugiat tortor volutpat quis. Nam eget sodales quam. Aliquam accumsan<br/>tellus ac erat posuere.</p><br/><br/><p class=vertical>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.<br/>Nullam consectetur ac turpis vel laoreet. Nullam volutpat pharetra lorem, sit<br/>amet feugiat tortor volutpat quis. Nam eget sodales quam. Aliquam accumsan<br/>tellus ac erat posuere.</p><br/>```<br/><br/>Our CSS looks like this:<br/><br/>```css<br/>p {<br/>  font-size: 1.5rem;<br/>  text-transform: capitalize;<br/>  text-decoration: underline;<br/>  text-decoration-thickness: 2px;<br/>}<br/><br/>.horizontal {<br/>  text-underline-position: under;<br/>}<br/><br/>.vertical {<br/>  writing-mode: vertical-rl;<br/>  text-underline-position: left;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>In this example we set both the paragraphs to have a thick underline. In the horizontal text we use `text-underline-position: under;` to put the underline below all the descenders.<br/><br/>In the text with a vertical [`writing-mode`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/writing-mode) set, we can then use values of `left` or `right` to make the underline appear on the left or right of the text as required.<br/><br/>The live example looks like this:<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('A_simple_example', '100%', 600)}}<br/><br/>### Setting text-underline-position globally<br/><br/>Because the `text-underline-position` property inherits and is not reset by the {{cssxref(text-decoration)}} shorthand property, it may be appropriate to set its value at a global level. For example, the `under` value may be appropriate for a document with lots of chemical and mathematical formulas, which make a large use of subscripts.<br/><br/>```css<br/>:root {<br/>  text-underline-position: under;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- The {{cssxref(text-decoration)}} property is a shorthand for setting most text-decoration properties, including {{cssxref(text-decoration-line)}}, {{cssxref(text-decoration-color)}}, and {{cssxref(text-decoration-style)}}. However, it does not set `text-underline-position`.<br/>- Microsoft [non-standard values documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-underline-position)<br/>