## ✔️ text-orientation 
 ---<br/>title: text-orientation<br/>slug: Web/CSS/text-orientation<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Writing Modes<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.text-orientation<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`text-orientation`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the orientation of the text characters in a line. It only affects text in vertical mode (when {{cssxref(writing-mode)}} is not `horizontal-tb`). It is useful for controlling the display of languages that use vertical script, and also for making vertical table headers.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/text-orientation.html)}}<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>text-orientation: mixed;<br/>text-orientation: upright;<br/>text-orientation: sideways-right;<br/>text-orientation: sideways;<br/>text-orientation: use-glyph-orientation;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>text-orientation: inherit;<br/>text-orientation: initial;<br/>text-orientation: revert;<br/>text-orientation: revert-layer;<br/>text-orientation: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>The `text-orientation` property is specified as a single keyword from the list below.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `mixed`<br/>  - : Rotates the characters of horizontal scripts 90° clockwise. Lays out the characters of vertical scripts naturally. Default value.<br/>- `upright`<br/>  - : Lays out the characters of horizontal scripts naturally (upright), as well as the glyphs for vertical scripts. Note that this keyword causes all characters to be considered as left-to-right: the used value of {{cssxref(direction)}} is forced to be `ltr`.<br/>- `sideways`<br/>  - : Causes characters to be laid out as they would be horizontally, but with the whole line rotated 90° clockwise.<br/>- `sideways-right`<br/>  - : An alias to `sideways` that is kept for compatibility purposes.<br/>- `use-glyph-orientation`<br/>  - : On SVG elements, this keyword leads to use the value of the deprecated SVG properties `glyph-orientation-vertical` and `glyph-orientation-horizontal`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><p>Lorem ipsum dolet semper quisquam.</p><br/>```<br/><br/>### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>p {<br/>  writing-mode: vertical-rl;<br/>  text-orientation: upright;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Examples')}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- The other vertical-script related CSS properties: {{cssxref(writing-mode)}}, {{cssxref(text-combine-upright)}}, and {{cssxref(unicode-bidi)}}.<br/>- [CSS Logical properties](/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Logical_Properties)<br/>- [Styling vertical text (Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Mongolian)](https://www.w3.org/International/articles/vertical-text/)<br/>- Extensive browsers support test results: <https://w3c.github.io/i18n-tests/results/horizontal-in-vertical.html#text_orientation><br/>