## ✔️ text-emphasis 
 ---<br/>title: text-emphasis<br/>slug: Web/CSS/text-emphasis<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS Text Decoration<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-shorthand-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.text-emphasis<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`text-emphasis`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property applies emphasis marks to text (except spaces and control characters). It is a [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) for {{cssxref(text-emphasis-style)}} and {{cssxref(text-emphasis-color)}}.<br/><br/>{{EmbedInteractiveExample(pages/css/text-emphasis.html)}}<br/><br/>The `text-emphasis` property is quite different from {{cssxref(text-decoration)}}. The `text-decoration` property does not inherit, and the decoration specified is applied across the whole element. However, text-emphasis does inherit, which means it is possible to change emphasis marks for descendants.<br/><br/>The size of the emphasis symbol, like ruby symbols, is about 50% of the size of the font, and `text-emphasis` may affect line height when the current leading is not enough for the marks.<br/><br/>> **Note:** `text-emphasis` doesn't reset the value of {{cssxref(text-emphasis-position)}}. This is because if the style and the color of emphasis marks may vary in a text, it is extremely unlikely that their position will. In the very rare cases when this is needed, use the property {{cssxref(text-emphasis-position)}}.<br/><br/>## Constituent properties<br/><br/>This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:<br/><br/>- [`text-emphasis-color`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-emphasis-color)<br/>- [`text-emphasis-style`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-emphasis-style)<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Initial value */<br/>text-emphasis: none; /* No emphasis marks */<br/><br/>/* <string> value */<br/>text-emphasis: 'x';<br/>text-emphasis: '点';<br/>text-emphasis: '\25B2';<br/>text-emphasis: '*' #555;<br/>text-emphasis: 'foo'; /* Should NOT use. It may be computed to or rendered as 'f' only */<br/><br/>/* Keywords value */<br/>text-emphasis: filled;<br/>text-emphasis: open;<br/>text-emphasis: filled sesame;<br/>text-emphasis: open sesame;<br/><br/>/* Keywords value combined with a color */<br/>text-emphasis: filled sesame #555;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>text-emphasis: inherit;<br/>text-emphasis: initial;<br/>text-emphasis: revert;<br/>text-emphasis: revert-layer;<br/>text-emphasis: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `none`<br/>  - : No emphasis marks.<br/>- `filled`<br/>  - : The shape is filled with solid color. If neither `filled` nor `open` is present, this is the default.<br/>- `open`<br/>  - : The shape is hollow.<br/>- `dot`<br/>  - : Display small circles as marks. The filled dot is `'•'` (`U+2022`), and the open dot is `'◦'` (`U+25E6`).<br/>- `circle`<br/>  - : Display large circles as marks. The filled circle is `'●'` (`U+25CF`), and the open circle is `'○'` (`U+25CB`). This is the default shape in horizontal writing modes when no other shape is given.<br/>- `double-circle`<br/>  - : Display double circles as marks. The filled double-circle is `'◉'` (`U+25C9`), and the open double-circle is `'◎'` (`U+25CE`).<br/>- `triangle`<br/>  - : Display triangles as marks. The filled triangle is `'▲'` (`U+25B2`), and the open triangle is `'△'` (`U+25B3`).<br/>- `sesame`<br/>  - : Display sesames as marks. The filled sesame is `'﹅'` (`U+FE45`), and the open sesame is `'﹆'` (`U+FE46`). This is the default shape in vertical writing modes when no other shape is given.<br/>- `<string>`<br/>  - : Display the given string as marks. Authors should not specify more than one _character_ in `<string>`. The UA may truncate or ignore strings consisting of more than one grapheme cluster.<br/>- `<color>`<br/>  - : Defines the color of the mark. If no color is present, it defaults to `currentcolor`.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### A heading with emphasis shape and color<br/><br/>This example draws a heading with triangles used to emphasize each character.<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>h2 {<br/>  text-emphasis: triangle #D55;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><h2>This is important!</h2><br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample(A_heading_with_emphasis_shape_and_color, 500, 90)}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- The longhand properties {{cssxref('text-emphasis-style')}}, {{cssxref('text-emphasis-color')}}.<br/>- The {{cssxref('text-emphasis-position')}} property allowing to define the position of the emphasis marks.<br/>