## ✔️ touch-action 
 ---<br/>title: touch-action<br/>slug: Web/CSS/touch-action<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Pointer Events<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.touch-action<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`touch-action`** CSS property sets how an element's region can be manipulated by a touchscreen user (for example, by zooming features built into the browser).<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>touch-action: auto;<br/>touch-action: none;<br/>touch-action: pan-x;<br/>touch-action: pan-left;<br/>touch-action: pan-right;<br/>touch-action: pan-y;<br/>touch-action: pan-up;<br/>touch-action: pan-down;<br/>touch-action: pinch-zoom;<br/>touch-action: manipulation;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>touch-action: inherit;<br/>touch-action: initial;<br/>touch-action: revert;<br/>touch-action: revert-layer;<br/>touch-action: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>By default, panning (scrolling) and pinching gestures are handled exclusively by the browser. An application using {{domxref(Pointer_events, Pointer events, , 1)}} will receive a {{domxref(HTMLElement/pointercancel_event, pointercancel)}} event when the browser starts handling a touch gesture. By explicitly specifying which gestures should be handled by the browser, an application can supply its own behavior in {{domxref(HTMLElement/pointermove_event, pointermove)}} and {{domxref(HTMLElement/pointerup_event, pointerup)}} listeners for the remaining gestures. Applications using {{domxref(Touch_events, Touch events, , 1)}} disable the browser handling of gestures by calling {{domxref(Event.preventDefault,preventDefault())}}, but should also use `touch-action` to ensure the browser knows the intent of the application before any event listeners have been invoked.<br/><br/>When a gesture is started, the browser intersects the `touch-action` values of the touched element and its ancestors, up to the one that implements the gesture (in other words, the first containing scrolling element). This means that in practice, `touch-action` is typically applied only to top-level elements which have some custom behavior, without needing to specify `touch-action` explicitly on any of that element's descendants.<br/><br/>> **Note:** After a gesture starts, changes to `touch-action` will not have any impact on the behavior of the current gesture.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The `touch-action` property may be specified as either:<br/><br/>- One of the keywords `auto`, `none`, [`manipulation`](#manipulation), _or_<br/>- One of the keywords `pan-x`, `pan-left`, `pan-right`, and/or one of the keywords `pan-y`, `pan-up`, `pan-down`, plus optionally the keyword `pinch-zoom`.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `auto`<br/>  - : Enable browser handling of all panning and zooming gestures.<br/>- `none`<br/>  - : Disable browser handling of all panning and zooming gestures.<br/>- `pan-x`<br/>  - : Enable single-finger horizontal panning gestures. May be combined with **pan-y**, **pan-up**, **pan-down** and/or **pinch-zoom**.<br/>- `pan-y`<br/>  - : Enable single-finger vertical panning gestures. May be combined with **pan-x**, **pan-left**, **pan-right** and/or **pinch-zoom**.<br/>- `manipulation`<br/>  - : Enable panning and pinch zoom gestures, but disable additional non-standard gestures such as double-tap to zoom. Disabling double-tap to zoom removes the need for browsers to delay the generation of **click** events when the user taps the screen. This is an alias for **pan-x pan-y pinch-zoom** (which, for compatibility, is itself still valid).<br/>- `pan-left`, `pan-right`, `pan-up`, `pan-down` {{experimental_inline}}<br/>  - : Enable single-finger gestures that begin by scrolling in the given direction(s). Once scrolling has started, the direction may still be reversed. Note that scrolling up (**pan-up**) means that the user is dragging their finger downward on the screen surface, and likewise **pan-left** means the user is dragging their finger to the right. Multiple directions may be combined except when there is a simpler representation (for example, **pan-left pan-right** is invalid since **pan-x** is simpler, but **pan-left pan-down** is valid).<br/>- `pinch-zoom`<br/>  - : Enable multi-finger panning and zooming of the page. This may be combined with any of the **pan-** values.<br/><br/>## Accessibility concerns<br/><br/>A declaration of `touch-action: none;` may inhibit operating a browser's zooming capabilities. This will prevent people experiencing low vision conditions from being able to read and understand page content.<br/><br/>- [MDN Understanding WCAG, Guideline 1.4 explanations](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG/Perceivable#Guideline_1.4_Make_it_easier_for_users_to_see_and_hear_content_including_separating_foreground_from_background)<br/>- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4 | Understanding WCAG 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/visual-audio-contrast-scale.html)<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### Disabling all gestures<br/><br/>The most common usage is to disable all gestures on an element (and its non-scrollable descendants) that provides its own dragging and zooming behavior – such as a map or game surface.<br/><br/>#### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div id=map></div><br/>```<br/><br/>#### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>#map {<br/>  height: 150vh;<br/>  width: 70vw;<br/>  background: linear-gradient(blue, green);<br/>  touch-action: none;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>#### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Disabling_all_gestures')}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{cssxref(pointer-events,pointer-events)}}<br/>- {{domxref(Pointer_events,Pointer Events)}}<br/>- WebKit Blog [More Responsive Tapping on iOS](https://webkit.org/blog/5610/more-responsive-tapping-on-ios/ Permanent Link: More Responsive Tapping on iOS)<br/>- Google Developers Blog [Making touch scrolling fast by default](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/scrolling-intervention/)<br/>- [Scroll Snap](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Scroll_Snap)<br/>