## ✔️ unicode-bidi 
 ---<br/>title: unicode-bidi<br/>slug: Web/CSS/unicode-bidi<br/>tags:<br/>  - BiDi<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.unicode-bidi<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}<br/><br/>The **`unicode-bidi`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property, together with the {{cssxref(direction)}} property, determines how bidirectional text in a document is handled. For example, if a block of content contains both left-to-right and right-to-left text, the user-agent uses a complex Unicode algorithm to decide how to display the text. The `unicode-bidi` property overrides this algorithm and allows the developer to control the text embedding.<br/><br/>The `unicode-bidi` and {{cssxref(direction)}} properties are the only properties that are not affected by the {{cssxref(all)}} shorthand.<br/><br/>> **Warning:** This property is intended for Document Type Definition (DTD) designers. Web designers and similar authors **should not** override it.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>unicode-bidi: normal;<br/>unicode-bidi: embed;<br/>unicode-bidi: isolate;<br/>unicode-bidi: bidi-override;<br/>unicode-bidi: isolate-override;<br/>unicode-bidi: plaintext;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>unicode-bidi: inherit;<br/>unicode-bidi: initial;<br/>unicode-bidi: revert;<br/>unicode-bidi: revert-layer;<br/>unicode-bidi: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `normal`<br/>  - : The element does not offer an additional level of embedding with respect to the bidirectional algorithm. For inline elements, implicit reordering works across element boundaries.<br/>- `embed`<br/>  - : If the element is inline, this value opens an additional level of embedding with respect to the bidirectional algorithm. The direction of this embedding level is given by the {{Cssxref(direction)}} property.<br/>- `bidi-override`<br/>  - : For inline elements this creates an override. For block container elements this creates an override for inline-level descendants not within another block container element. This means that inside the element, reordering is strictly in sequence according to the {{Cssxref(direction)}} property; the implicit part of the bidirectional algorithm is ignored.<br/>- `isolate`<br/>  - : This keyword indicates that the element's container directionality should be calculated without considering the content of this element. The element is therefore _isolated_ from its siblings. When applying its bidirectional-resolution algorithm, its container element treats it as one or several `U+FFFC Object Replacement Character`, i.e. like an image.<br/>- `isolate-override`<br/>  - : This keyword applies the isolation behavior of the `isolate` keyword to the surrounding content and the override behavior of the `bidi-override` keyword to the inner content.<br/>- `plaintext`<br/>  - : This keyword makes the elements directionality calculated without considering its parent bidirectional state or the value of the {{cssxref(direction)}} property. The directionality is calculated using the P2 and P3 rules of the Unicode Bidirectional Algorithm.<br/>    This value allows the display of data that is already formatted using a tool following the Unicode Bidirectional Algorithm.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{csssyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>.bible-quote {<br/>  direction: rtl;<br/>  unicode-bidi: embed;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=bible-quote><br/>  A line of text<br/></div><br/><div><br/>  Another line of text<br/></div><br/>```<br/><br/>### Result<br/><br/>{{EmbedLiveSample('Examples')}}<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>{{Specifications}}<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{Cssxref(direction)}}<br/>