## ✔️ user-modify 
 ---<br/>title: user-modify<br/>slug: Web/CSS/user-modify<br/>tags:<br/>  - CSS<br/>  - CSS Property<br/>  - CSS:Mozilla Extensions<br/>  - CSS:WebKit Extensions<br/>  - Deprecated<br/>  - Non-standard<br/>  - Reference<br/>  - recipe:css-property<br/>browser-compat: css.properties.user-modify<br/>---<br/>{{CSSRef}}{{Non-standard_Header}}{{Deprecated_Header}}<br/><br/>The **`user-modify`** property has no effect in Firefox. It was originally planned to determine whether or not the content of an element can be edited by a user.<br/><br/>```css<br/>/* Keyword values */<br/>user-modify: read-only;<br/>user-modify: read-write;<br/>user-modify: write-only;<br/><br/>/* Global values */<br/>user-modify: inherit;<br/>user-modify: initial;<br/>user-modify: revert;<br/>user-modify: unset;<br/>```<br/><br/>> **Warning:** This property has been replaced by the {{HTMLAttrxRef(contenteditable)}} attribute.<br/><br/>## Syntax<br/><br/>The `-moz-user-modify` property is specified as one of the keyword values from the list below.<br/><br/>### Values<br/><br/>- `read-only`<br/>  - : Default value. Contents are read-only.<br/>- `read-write`<br/>  - : The user is able to read and write contents.<br/>- `read-write-plaintext-only` {{Non-standard_Inline}}<br/>  - : Same as `read-write`, but rich text formatting will be lost.<br/>- `write-only`<br/>  - : The user is able to edit the content, but not to read it.<br/><br/>## Formal definition<br/><br/>{{CSSInfo}}<br/><br/>## Formal syntax<br/><br/>{{CSSSyntax}}<br/><br/>## Examples<br/><br/>### HTML<br/><br/>```html<br/><div class=readwrite>The user is able to change this text.</div><br/>```<br/><br/>### CSS<br/><br/>```css<br/>.readwrite {<br/>  -moz-user-modify: read-write;<br/>  -webkit-user-modify: read-write;<br/>}<br/>```<br/><br/>## Specifications<br/><br/>Not part of any standard. A similar property, `user-focus`, was proposed in [early drafts of a predecessor of the CSS3 UI specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/2000/WD-css3-userint-20000216), but was rejected by the working group.<br/><br/>## Browser compatibility<br/><br/>{{Compat}}<br/><br/>## See also<br/><br/>- {{CSSxRef(-moz-user-focus)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(-moz-user-input)}}<br/>- {{CSSxRef(-moz-user-select)}}<br/>